For this reason, we compared the incidence of death from malignant neoplasms in 2 families of patients with A-T to that expected in a random sample of the general population.
Through gene targeting, we have generated a line of Atm mutant mice, Atm(y/y) mice.
Ankylosing spondylitis is diagnosed once or twice in each 1000 males and one tenth as frequently in females, but the true prevalence is unknown.
In this study, we have collected data on 13 additional unrelated patients to identify the causative mutations and to determine the prevalence of the 11-kb deletion.
Mutations in the human phenylalanine hydroxylase gene producing phenylketonuria or hyperphenylalaninemia have now been identified in many patients from various ethnic groups.
The cost of screening per sample was calculated to be approximately US$70 for the manual technique used in this study, and may be reduced to approximately US$10 with the introduction of commercially available PCR robotics and fluorescent imaging.
Estimates from heterogeneity tests suggest that, within Sweden, as many as 50% of early-onset families had evidence of linkage to the HPC1 region.
Papillon-Lefevre syndrome (PLS) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterised by palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and severe early onset periodontitis that results in the premature loss of the primary and secondary dentitions.
Seven further molecular bases of C7 deficiency are described.
A myotonic dystrophy (DM) family is described in which discordant DM phenotypes were found in the children of two affected sisters with similar CTG expansion and clinical manifestations.
None had chronic or prolonged manifestations of FMF, for example, amyloidosis, chronic arthritis, or protracted myalgia, P < 0.001.
Consequently, 86% of afibrinogenemia alleles analyzed to date have truncating mutations of FGA, though mutations in all 3 fibrinogen genes, FGG, FGA, and FGB, might be predicted to cause congenital afibrinogenemia..
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is caused by deficiency of the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
A boy developed contractures of the Achilles tendons at 3 years and of the postcervical muscles at 7 years, although neither contractures of the elbows nor cardiac abnormality were recognized by the age of 9 years.
Relatives with splice-site or major structural defects in the PROS1 gene were more likely to have had a thrombotic event and had significantly lower total and free protein S levels than those relatives having missense mutations.
The M694V homozygous genotype was found to be associated with a higher prevalence of renal amyloidosis and arthritis, compared with other genotypes P=.0002 and P=.006, respectively.
These results support the theory that human aniridia is caused by haploinsufficiency of PAX6..
There was no obvious correlation between the type of mutation and phenotypic expression.
Lowe syndrome, also known as oculocerebrorenal syndrome, is caused by mutations in the X chromosome-encoded OCRL gene.
Biochemical characterization has shown that most of the G6PD deficiency in this population is accounted for by G6PD Mediterranean.
Friedreich ataxia is usually caused by an expansion of a GAA trinucleotide repeat in intron 1 of the FRDA gene.
Mutant BRCA1 has no effect on growth of breast cancer cells; ovarian cancer cell growth is not affected by BRCA1 mutations in the 5' portion of the gene, but is inhibited by 3' BRCA1 mutations.
Hypermethylation of the expanded repeat and of the FMR1 promoter is almost always present and apparently suppresses transcription, resulting in absence of the FMR1 protein.
Aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) is a rare disorder of glycoprotein metabolism caused by the deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme aspartylglucosaminidase AGA.
In this family, the phenotype in three generations of affected individuals was confined to the cardinal signs of VWS.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is a recessive disorder characterized by episodes of fever with serositis or synovitis.
The evidence of linkage to this region originated almost exclusively from the subset of 12 early-onset (age <65 years) families, which yielded a maximum LOD score of 2.38 at D1S413 (straight theta=0) and an NPL Z score of 1.95 at D1S422 P=.03.
Previous linkage and association studies have suggested the presence of a susceptibility gene for AS close to, or within, the cytochrome P450 2D6 gene (CYP2D6, debrisoquine hydroxylase) located at chromosome 22q13.1.
Here we report the autoinhibited structure of the GTPase-binding domain of WASP, which can be induced by the C-terminal region or by organic co-solvents.
The Type II C2 null allele (C2Q0) is linked to two major histocompatibility haplotypes (MHC) that differ from the MHC of the more common Type I C2 deficiency.
A third family has previously been reported, in which affected members had an extra copy of the PLP gene detected at Xq26 in a chromosome with an otherwise normal banding pattern.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Age at diagnosis, surgical stage, histologic cell type and grade, and surgical outcome; and response to chemotherapy and survival for advanced-stage (II and IV) cases.
This same AR mutation has been reported previously in a metastatic prostate cancer cell line, LNCaP, where this mutation confers upon the AR an altered ligand-binding specificity which is stimulated by estrogens, progestagens, and antiandrogens.
Mutations in the ATP7B gene lead to Wilson disease, a copper toxicity disorder characterized by dramatic build-up of intracellular hepatic copper with subsequent hepatic and neuro-logical abnormalities.
In one case, previously described, the enzyme was of the A- type.
Meiotic recombination events have localized the critical region containing ALMS1 to a 6.1-cM interval flanked by markers D2S327 and D2S286.
We report a novel missense change in BRCA1, 2640 C--T (R841W), found in 3 cases from a subject group of 305 breast and 79 ovarian cancer cases from Orange County, CA.
Using phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy we demonstrated a maximum rate of muscle mitochondrial ATP production V max below the normal range in all 12 FRDA patients and a strong negative correlation between mitochondrial V(max) and the number of GAA repeats in the smaller allele.
The patient responded positively to treatment with L-dopa.
In northwestern Europe, >80% of GH patients are homozygous for one mutation, the substitution of tyrosine for cysteine at position 282 (C282Y) in the unprocessed protein.
The NBS1 protein is specifically mutated in patients with Nijmegen breakage syndrome and forms a complex with the DNA repair proteins Rad50 and Mrel1.
To elucidate the mechanism underlying these events, we characterized the regions that contain two proximal breakpoint clusters and a distal cluster.
In contrast, lymphocytes from all the carriers except two lacked the WASPdim population.
These results provide a new insight into the role of mutant PAX6 in causing aniridia..
HLA histocompatibility typing of the family members did not demonstrate evidence for genetic linkage of C7 deficiency with the major histocompatibility loci.
The BRCA1 gene on chromosome 17q21 is responsible for an autosomal dominant syndrome of increased susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer but no somatic mutations in tumours have yet been described.
Sjogren-Larsson syndrome (SLS) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by ichthyosis, mental retardation, spasticity, and deficient activity of fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase FALDH.
However, several truncation mutations have been found to occur in the C-terminal half of PAX6 in patients with Aniridia resulting in mutant proteins that retain the DNA-binding domains but have lost most of the transactivation domain.
Molecular analysis of the patients' RNA and DNA identified two new RNA splicing defects, three new and three previously described amino acid substitutions.
Although almost half of the YACs appear to contain chimeric inserts and several contain internal deletions or other rearrangements, we were able to obtain over 2.2 Mb of the HD region in YACs, including one continuous segment of 2.0 Mb covering the region that most likely contains the HD gene.
Mice with a partial or complete deficiency of Hmgic resisted diet-induced obesity.
To determine the molecular basis of type I C2 deficiency, the C2 gene and cDNA were characterized from a homozygous type I C2-deficient individual with the common associated haplotype/complotype.
Fewer than half of the splicing mutations involved the canonical AG splice-acceptor site or GT splice-donor site.
Both mutations were tested in a eukaryotic expression system in which enzyme activities of different mutant PAH enzymes reflect the relative severities of the mutations, although these in vitro activities cannot be translated directly into in vivo hepatic activities.
In order to elucidate the cellular and molecular processes which are involved in Norrie disease (ND), we have used gene targeting technology to generate ND mutant mice.
It is not known whether BRCA1 phosphorylation and dispersion and its function in DNA damage response are related.
Immunohistochemically, expression of AGA in AGU patients' mucosal lesions did not differ from that seen in corresponding lesions of normal subjects.
APC(AS9) was found to down-regulate beta-catenin-regulated transcription, the major tumor-suppressor function of APC, as did the wild-type APC.
These results refine understanding of MEFV by placing the gene in the myelomonocytic-specific proinflammatory pathway and identifying it as an IFN-gamma immediate early gene..
Genomic DNA was prepared from the peripheral blood leukocytes of at least one affected woman from each family.
Our results indicate that the mutations identified in this study are A-T disease-causing" mutations that might be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in heterozygotes. "
Thus, we screened 16 endometrial carcinomas with microsatellite instability for alterations in FEN1 (the human homolog of RTH) and in MSH3 refs 12-14.
The mechanism responsible for this strong male bias in the duplications may involve an unequal sister chromatid exchange, since two deletion events, responsible for mild clinical manifestations, have been reported in PLP-related diseases..
ovarian cancer were different from those in reports of the Ashkenazi founder mutations.
We found a correlation between the size of the smaller of the two expanded alleles and age at onset, age into wheelchair, scoliosis, impaired vibration sense, and the presence of foot deformity.
The distribution of the two mutations differ, C282Y being limited to those of northwestern European ancestry and H63D being found at allele frequencies>5%, in Europe, in countries bordering the Mediterranean, in the Middle East, and in the Indian subcontinent.
About 50 of these mutations are single-base substitutions, including six nonsense mutations and eight splicing mutations, with the remainder being missense mutations.
The gene (CTSC) encoding the lysosomal protease cathepsin C (or dipeptidyl aminopeptidase I) lies within this interval.
Our results demonstrate that the rate and severity of cataract formation is inversely related to Six5 dosage and is temporally progressive.
Five patients had evidence of a sero-negative peripheral arthritis resembling peripheral psoriatic arthritis and 3 of these were B27 negative.
The cancer incidence among the siblings or the parents did not differ from the average cancer incidence in the Finnish population.
Our results provide information helpful to an understanding of the APC gene and will also contribute to presymptomatic diagnosis of members in FAP families..
To investigate the origin of this mutation in colorectal cancer families from England (n=4), Newfoundland (n=10), and the United States (n=3), haplotype analysis using microsatellite markers linked to MSH2 was performed.
In this study we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis DGGE.
The mutations associated with Pendred syndrome have complete loss of pendrin-induced chloride and iodide transport, while alleles unique to people with DFNB4 are able to transport both iodide and chloride, albeit at a much lower level than wild-type pendrin.
OBJECTIVE: Previous reports have suggested an increased risk of cancer among patients with cartilage-hair hypoplasia CHH.
These results demonstrate that BRCA1 interacts with components of the histone deacetylase complex, and therefore may explain the involvement of BRCA1 in multiple processes such as transcription, DNA repair, and recombination..
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is associated with paternally derived chromosomal deletions in region 15q11-13 or with maternal disomy for chromosome 15.
Although recent data established that a specific very-long-chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase is defective in X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD), the ALD gene is still unidentified.
A model which accounts for the dominant negative effect of this lesion is presented.
The Atp7b protein is a copper-transporting ATPase expressed predominantly in the liver and to a lesser extent in most other tissues.
This method involves the selective amplification of a DNA fragment from human G6PD gene with specific oligonucleotide primers followed by digestion with restriction enzymes that recognize artificially created or naturally occurring restriction sites.
We verified these events by in vivo splicing experiments and transient expression analysis of mutant cDNAs.
Such intragenic polymorphisms offer a practical approach to a more rapid procedure for presymptomatic diagnosis of FAP by linkage analysis in informative families..
We describe two brothers with identical inherited deletions of one single exon within the middle of the DMD gene; one brother has Becker muscular dystrophy diagnosed at 11 years of age, whereas the older brother is normal at 18.
We have previously described four mutations (M1V, IVS12nt1, R408W, and S349P) at the PAH locus in French Canadians with ancestry in eastern Quebec.
In this study, direct mutation analysis of the APC gene was performed to determine genotype-phenotype correlations for nine extracolonic manifestations and to investigate the incidence of APC mutations in non-FAP colorectal cancer.
Thus the most common polymorphisms of the BRCA1 gene do not make a significant contribution to breast or ovarian cancer risk.
We identified a patient suffering from late-infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) who has a residual arylsulfatase A (ARSA) activity of about 10%.
These studies demonstrate for the first time that a complex ultrastructural cell defect can be corrected both morphologically and functionally by in vivo gene transfer..
Six5-mutant mice showed reporter expression in multiple tissues, including the developing lens.
Thus, it appears that C3 deficiency in Brittany spaniel dogs not only shares biochemical and clinical features with C3 deficiency in humans, but also shares some genetic characteristics with the human disorder..
Familial gastric cancer is genetically heterogeneous and it is not clear what proportion of gastric cancer susceptibility in non-Maori populations is due to germline CDH1 mutations.
An obligate carrier of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) who was also heterozygous for the A and B types of X-linked glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was found.
In order to investigate the molecular basis for argininemia in four unrelated Portuguese patients (two from northern Portugal and two from Madeira Island) we performed a DNA sequence analysis of all the exons and exon/intron boundaries of the liver-type arginase gene ARG1.
Mutations at codon 172 of the rds gene have been identified in three families with autosomal dominantly inherited, progressive macular dystrophy.
In summary, our data suggest a role for some uncharacterized variants and rare forms of polymorphisms in determining ovarian cancer risk, and highlight the necessity to screen for missense alterations as well as truncating mutations in this population..
X-linked Adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) is the most frequent peroxisomal disease.
The retinoblastoma-predisposition gene, RB1, segregates as an autosomal dominant trait with high (90%) penetrance.
A C-to-T transition in exon 4 of the PLP gene was found in 2 affected males and two obligate carriers in a German family with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), the most common autosomal recessive ataxia, is caused in almost all cases by homozygous intronic expansions resulting in the loss of frataxin, a mitochondrial protein conserved through evolution, and involved in mitochondrial iron homeostasis.
In contrast, the MSH2 mutation was identified in 10 of 20 (50%) separately identified colorectal families from Newfoundland.
The patient reported here is a human homologue of the Fas-null mouse, inasmuch as she carries an autosomal homozygous mutation in the FAS gene and she shows the severe and accelerated ALPS phenotype.
For females there was a high risk of endometrial cancer (0.5 at age 60 years) and premenopausal ovarian cancer 0.2 at 50 years.
The effects of the mutations at the mRNA and protein level were ascertained by RT-PCR and Western blot analyses.
Evaluation by postal questionnaires, and pelvic radiography of 78 HL-A 27W-positive blood donors selected from a group of apparently healthy subjects revealed 14 who satisfied the criteria for definite ankylosing spondylitis.
Familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by post-natal development of arginine vasopressin (AVP) deficiency due to mutations in the AVP gene.
Formation of irradiation-induced foci positive for BRCA1, hRad50, hMre11, or p95 was dramatically reduced in HCC/1937 breast cancer cells carrying a homozygous mutation in BRCA1 but was restored by transfection of wild-type BRCA1.
FMRP is an RNA-binding protein that shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm.
Thus, diverse point mutations may account largely for the phenotypic heterogeneity of G6PD deficiency..
Remarkably, a previously unreported deficient variant, G6PD Orissa (44 Ala--Gly), is responsible for most of the G6PD deficiency in tribal Indian populations but is not found in urban populations, where most of the G6PD deficiency is due to the G6PD Mediterranean (188 Ser--Phe) variant.
We examined somatic mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene in 63 colorectal tumors (16 adenomas and 47 carcinomas) developed in familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and non-FAP patients.
The I1307K APC gene variant was found in 6.1% of American Jews, 28% of their familial colorectal cancer cases, but not in non-Jews.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an autosomal recessive disease due to deficiency of a hepatic enzyme, phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
CONCLUSIONS: In a population of white adults of northern European ancestry, 0.5 percent were homozygous for the C282Y mutation in the HFE gene.
These studies suggest that the genes for Factor B and C2 deficiency are located outside those for HLA, that the order of genese is HLA-A, -B, -D, Factor B allotype, C2 deficiency, that the genes coding for C2 deficiency and Factor B allotypes are approximately 3--5 centimorgans from the HLA-A and HLA-B loci, and that the apparent lack of recombinants between the Factor B gene and C2 deficiency gene suggests that these two genes lie in close proximity to one another..
It was rare, as not observed in controls, but not segregating with the BFIC phenotype..
Myotonic dystrophy, or dystrophia myotonica (DM), is an autosomal dominant multisystem disorder caused by the expansion of a CTG trinucleotide repeat in the 3' untranslated region of the DMPK protein kinase gene on chromosome 19q13.3 refs 1-3.
The demonstration of both the diagnostic and prognostic value of MEFV analysis and particular modes of inheritance should lead to new ways for management of FMF-including genetic counseling and therapeutic decisions in affected families..
Our data indicate for the first time that beta-catenin accumulation may play a role in the development of hepatoblastoma and that activating mutations of the beta-catenin gene may substitute biallelic APC inactivation in this tumor type.
Diagnosis is usually based on the VLCFA levels in plasma or cultured skin fibroblasts in both patients and carriers.
Mutations at the PEPD locus cause prolidase deficiency (McKusick 170100), a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by iminodipeptiduria, skin ulcers, mental retardation, and recurrent infections.
We present here the effect, on emerin protein expression, of two missense mutations identified in unrelated EDMD patients.
The hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome is associated with a high frequency of BRCA1 mutations.
The results demonstrated that the genetic heterogeneity of G6PD deficiency was high in this area..
Our findings, thus, suggest that PDGF receptors could be a target for pharmacological treatment of DFSP and giant cell fibroblastoma, e.g., through the use of PDGF receptor kinase inhibitors such as CGP57148B..
In situ hybridization mapping locates the fragile site between 150 kb and 600 kb distal to FRAXA.
Two other Mexican males with G6PD deficiency were found to have the same mutation.
Keratosis also affects other sites such as elbows and knees.
ATP7B, the gene altered in Wilson disease (WD) patients, lies in a block of homology shared between human chromosome 13q14 and the central region of mouse chromosome 14.
The serum ferritin levels in the four other homozygous patients remained in the normal range.
Thus, mutations resulting in truncated proteins may lead to a higher risk of RCC in VHL patients..
We propose that iron-dependent self-assembly of recombinant mYfh1p reflects a physiological role for frataxin in mitochondrial iron sequestration and bioavailability..
The locus for non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss with EVA has been mapped to the same chromosomal region, 7q31, as the Pendred syndrome locus.
Despite heterozygosity for the abnormal allele, lymphocytes from ALPS patients showed markedly decreased FADD association and a loss of caspase recruitment and activation after CD95 crosslinking.
Heterozygous mutations in the human PAX6 gene result in various phenotypes, including aniridia, Peter's anomaly, autosomal dominant keratitis, and familial foveal dysplasia.
RESULTS: Sixteen of the subjects (0.5 percent) were homozygous for the C282Y mutation, and 424 (14.1 percent) were heterozygous.
It is characterized by a complete failure to develop photoreceptor discs and outer segments, downregulation of rhodopsin and apoptotic loss of photoreceptor cells.
In addition to highlighting the effect of the normal repeat length upon AO in maternally inherited HD and in male patients, we show that the APOE epsilon2epsilon3 genotype is associated with significantly earlier AO in males than in females.
Significant within-family association of CYP2D6*4 alleles and AS was demonstrated.
In contrast, a common haplotype was identified at the two flanking markers (CA5 and D2S288) in eight of the Newfoundland families.
This article reviews the clinical and molecular genetics of primary dystonias, critically discusses present findings, and proposes referring to the known forms, most of which can be distinguished by genetic criteria, as dystonias 1-12..
Germ-line mutations of the BRCA1 gene predispose women to early-onset breast and ovarian cancer by compromising the gene's presumptive function as a tumor suppressor.
Thus, the location of mutations within APT1 strongly influences the development and the severity of ALPS..
We report here the characterization of a transgene insertion (Epstein-Barr virus Latent Membrane Protein 2A, LMP2A) into mouse chromosome 7C, which has resulted in mouse models for PWS and AS dependent on the sex of the transmitting parent.
While PLS cases have been identified throughout the world, HMS has only been described among descendants of a religious isolate originally from Cochin, India.
Of the many palmoplantar keratoderma (PPK) conditions, only Papillon-Lefevre syndrome (PLS) and Haim-Munk syndrome (HMS) are associated with premature periodontal destruction.
To our knowledge this is the first documented case of an association between discoid lupus erythematosus and C5 deficiency..
In the present report we analyze 40 (12 original and 28 newly identified) Swedish families with hereditary prostate cancer (HPC) that, on the basis of 40 markers spanning a 25-cM interval within 1q24-25, have evidence of linkage.
As yet, our understanding of HFE function in iron homeostasis is only partial; an even more open question is its possible role in the immune system.
We identified a new splice-site mutation affecting intron 4 of the PDS gene, at nucleotide position 639+7.
The event triggering malignant proliferation in 70% of retinoblastoma tumours is loss of heterozygosity for chromosome 13q14, whereby the normal retinoblastoma gene (RB1) allele is lost and an already mutated RB1 allele remains in the tumour.
Thirty-seven families with four or more cases of breast cancer or breast and ovarian cancer were analyzed for mutations in BRCA1.
Post-mortem examination of one of the patients showed extensive myelin loss in these columns.
We report on nine patients with craniofrontonasal dysplasia CFND.
Monoclonal antibodies which recognize different epitopes on either titin or nebulin show normal staining patterns on frozen sections of three muscle biopsies of Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
The adenomatous polyposis coli gene (APC) is mutated in familial adenomatous polyposis and in sporadic colorectal tumors.
Other neoplasms that may be associated with this gene in heterozygotes include pancreatic, basal cell, colonic, breast, and cervical carcinomas..
The present study supports the view that circulating lymphocytes give easy access to PAH gene transcripts whose nucleotide sequence is identical to that reported in liver and therefore represent a useful tool for molecular genetic studies in phenylketonuria..
We analyzed the HEXA gene of one pseudodeficient subject and identified both a C739-to-T substitution that changes Arg247----Trp on one allele and a previously identified Tay-Sachs disease mutation on the second allele.
Here we report that FCM-WASP analysis in monocytes could be a useful tool for the WAS carrier diagnosis.
Coexpression of hbeta(1) did not significantly alter current decay or recovery from inactivation of wild-type hH1; however, it further shifted the V(1/2) and accelerated the recovery from inactivation of T1620M.
Investigating 82 strictly selected sporadic cases of PMD, we found PLP mutations in 77%; complete PLP-gene duplications were the most frequent abnormality (62%), whereas point mutations in coding or splice-site regions of the gene were involved less frequently 38%.
These are located in the human 15q11-q13 and mouse 7C regions, in close proximity to NDN / Ndn.
To study this dosage effect, we characterized two PAX6 mutations in a family segregating aniridia and a milder syndrome consisting of congenital cataracts and late onset corneal dystrophy.
Mutation analysis of ACTC revealed an Ala295Ser mutation in exon 5 close to 2 missense mutations recently described to cause the inherited form of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy IDC.
Allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization confirmed homozygosity in the proband.
DNA analysis for Prader-Willi syndrome showed no abnormalities.
Treatment of mitotically stimulated lymphocytes with cyclosporin, which inhibits proliferation, blocked the increase in p19/nm23; treatment of the leukemia cell line HL-60 with dimethylsulfoxide, which induces terminal differentiation, resulted in diminished levels of p19/nm23.
However, previous studies have focused on mildly affected patients and there is still no report of two mutant PEX1 alleles in any Zellweger syndrome patient.
Expansion of a CTG trinucleotide repeat in the 3' UTR of the gene DMPK at the DM1 locus on chromosome 19 causes myotonic dystrophy, a dominantly inherited disease characterized by skeletal muscle dystrophy and myotonia, cataracts and cardiac conduction defects.
Bipolar affective disorder (BPAD; manic-depressive illness) is characterized by episodes of mania and/or hypomania interspersed with periods of depression.
This report represents the first cases of C7 deficiency associated with infectious complications and suggests that bactericidal activity may be important in host defense against bacteremic neisseria infections..
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms an increased risk of cancer, especially non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, probably attributable to defective immunity, among patients with CHH..
The 4.7 kb CTSC gene consists of two exons.
Here, we explore the cell origin and aetiology of this common human skin tumour.
Development of knockout and knockin mouse models may provide further insights into the functional evolution of this gene..
Association of alleles of the CYP2D6 gene was examined by both case-control and within-family means.
The present studies suggest that a skewed X-chromosomal inactivation pattern observed in WAS carrier peripheral blood cells is not fixed at the hemopoietic stem cell level but progresses after the lineage commitment..
CETP deficiency was not found in six unrelated subjects with elevated HDL cholesterol levels who were from different parts of the United States.
We aimed to determine whether the common germline mutations of BRCA1 or BRCA2 in Ashkenazi Jewish men predisposed them to prostate cancer.
Thus, a tertiary structural model of human GALNS was constructed from the X-ray crystal structure of N -acetylgalacto-samine-4-sulfatase and arylsulfatase A, using homology modeling, and 32 missense mutations were investigated.
The majority of patients were compound heterozygotes for two mutations, and there was no common founder mutation.
Abnormal CAG expansions in the IT-15 gene are associated with Huntington disease HD.
These selection pressures could be due to infectious diseases, environmental conditions, or other genetic disorders such as anemia..
Thus, the high frequency of mucosal overgrowth in AGU patients does not appear to be directly associated with lysosomal storage or with alterations in the level of AGA expression..
These observations indicated that C9 may play a critical role in haemolytic attacks in patients with PNH and that characteristic haemolysis in PNH may be tempered by coexisting C9 deficiency..
Mutations were found in 35 (53%) of the 66 families studied.
We identified four novel mutations in three unrelated patients.
A C--greater than G transversion has been found in exon 3 of the PLP gene of affected males and their mother in a single sibship with Pelizaeus-merzbacher disease PMD.
We have analyzed the 27 exons and the promoter region of the RB1 gene in familial or sporadic bilateral retinoblastoma by using single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis.
The significant relationship among genotype, biochemical phenotype, and cognitive performance observed in the present study is of importance for the development of an optimal strategy for future treatment of females with PKU who plan pregnancy..
Little effort has yet been made to find alterations involving this gene in human solid tumors.
The principal biochemical abnormality is the accumulation of saturated very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs : > C22:0, mainly C26:0), which is due to impaired capacity for beta-oxidation in peroxisomes.
Both patients had a family history of breast or ovarian cancer.
Most mutations are linked to specific haplotypes, as defined by eight polymorphic restriction sites in the PAH gene.
The mutation causing myotonic dystrophy (DM) has been identified as an amplification of an unstable trinucleotide (CTG)n repeat in over 99% of the global DM population.
We recently reported that HFE, the protein defective in HH, was physically associated with the transferrin receptor (TfR) in duodenal crypt cells and proposed that mutations in HFE attenuate the uptake of transferrin-bound iron from plasma by duodenal crypt cells, leading to up-regulation of transporters for dietary iron.
A higher percentage of mutations occurred at less stringently conserved sites, including silent mutations of the last nucleotide of exons, mutations in nucleotides other than the conserved AG and GT in the consensus splice sites, and creation of splice-acceptor or splice-donor sites in either introns or exons.
The R1 domain mutation prevents interaction of EGR2 with the NAB co-repressors and thereby increases transcriptional activity.
Like APC, APC2 regulates the formation of active betacatenin-Tcf complexes, as demonstrated using transient transcriptional activation assays in APC -/- colon carcinoma cells.
We report the identification of a female patient with the X-linked recessive Lesch-Nyhan syndrome hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase HPRT deficiency.
The phenotypic expression is highly variable, childhood cerebral ALD (CCALD) and adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) being the main variants.
Six of the eight patients with the infantile, severe form of the disease presented cardiac involvement, a feature rarely associated with GM1-gangliosidosis.
The method is based on SSCP analysis of nested PCR fragments followed by sequence-determination reactions.
Three of these mutations were in the zinc finger domains of WT1.
FRDA is caused by a GAA triplet expansion in the first intron of the FRDA gene on chromosome 9q13 in 97% of patients.
Patients were diagnosed at the Hospital Universitario Gregorio Maranon Madrid, Spain.
PWS becomes apparent when genes on the paternally inherited chromosome are not expressed.
In the present study, leukocyte DNA from 143 patients with familial clustering of breast and/or ovarian cancer and tumour DNA from 96 breast carcinomas were screened for base mutations in the estrogen receptor gene ESR.
GM1-gangliosidosis is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by deficiency of acid beta-galactosidase GLB1.
We have identified four mutations in each of the breast cancer-susceptibility genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, in French Canadian breast cancer and breast/ovarian cancer families from Quebec.
X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is a relatively rare benign neuromuscular disorder which can vary remarkably in onset, course and severity.
In a second unrelated family with signs of PMD, cytogenetic analysis showed a pericentric inversion of the X chromosome.
Pyruvate carboxylase (E.C. activity was determined in the circulating peripheral lymphocytes and cultured skin fibroblasts from the family of a patient with hepatic, cerebral, renal cortical, leukocyte, and fibroblast pyruvate carboxylase deficiency PC Portland deficiency.
In a family with three siblings, one developed classical late infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD), fatal at age 5 years, with deficient arylsulfatase A (ARSA) activity and increased galactosylsulfatide (GS) excretion.
We identified two heterozygous insertion mutations in exon 1 of TNFRSF11A in affected members of four families with FEO or familial Paget disease of bone PDB.
One family is homozygous, three families are compound heterozygotes, and two families are heterozygous but with no other mutation detected.
We discovered a missense mutation, GCA to GTA (Ala 54 Val), in exon 2 in a neurofibrosarcoma patient (case 1), two missense mutations, AAA to CAA (Lys 118 Gln) and GAA to GGA (Glu 154 Gly) in exon 5 of another neurofibrosarcoma patient (case 2), and 3 amino acid substitutions, GTG to GCG (Val 179 Ala), GTT to GCT (Val 181 Ala) and TTC to CTC (Phe 186 Leu), in a third neurofibrosarcoma patient case 3.
The remaining eight cases (89%) of male breast cancer with a family history of breast/ovarian cancer in first-degree relatives remain unaccounted for by mutations in either the BRCA1 gene or the BRCA2 gene..
Human APC2 maps to chromosome 19p13.3.
Furthermore, his T lymphocytes proliferated normally in response to phytohemagglutinin, concanavalin A, and the combination of neuraminidase/galactose oxidase.
The PAX6 gene is involved in ocular morphogenesis, and PAX6 mutations have been detected in various types of ocular anomalies, including aniridia, Peters anomaly, corneal dystrophy, congenital cataract, and foveal hypoplasia.
The alteration found in the second exon of the gene in this family seems to be responsible for the disease, as all individuals harboring the mutation had been previously diagnosed or have eventually developed FNDI.
With a new method we measured the saturated very long chain fatty acids in the plasma of adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) hemizygotes, ALD heterozygotes, and controls.
Targeted deletion of Dm15, the mouse orthologue of human DMPK, produced mice with a mild myopathy and cardiac conduction abnormalities, but without other features of myotonic dystrophy, such as myotonia and cataracts.
Expression of FMRP in hair roots was studied by use of an FMRP-specific antibody test, and the percentage of FMRP-expressing hair roots in controls and in male fragile X patients was determined.
Serum immunoglobulin levels were within normal limits in his parents and brother who were heterozygous for C2 deficiency.
Two yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs) spanning a total distance of 1.1 megabase pairs of DNA around the MCC (for mutated in colorectal carcinoma) and APC (for adenomatous polyposis coli) genes at 5q21 have been isolated and characterized.
After 1 year he became obese despite a normal appetite.
The specific processing and accumulation of toxic fragments of N-terminal huntingtin in HD-affected striatal neurons, especially in their neuronal processes and axonal terminals, may contribute to the selective neuropathology of HD..
The genetic defect is a CTG triplet repeat expansion in the 3'-untranslated region of the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase ( DMPK ) gene, consisting of 15 exons.
However, a probable germline mutation in a pancreatic tumour cell line suggests a role for BRCA2 in susceptibility to pancreatic cancer..
The retinal degeneration mouse (gene symbol, rd) is an animal model for certain forms of human hereditary retinopathies.
The patient has a previously uncharacterized submicroscopic deletion encompassing the CCG repeat, the entire FMR1 gene and about 2.5 megabases of flanking sequences.
Samples were tested for duplication of the PLP gene, by interphase FISH, in lymphocyte preparations from the proband, his aunt and an amniotic fluid cell preparation from the fetus.
The gene for ataxia-telangiectasia, ATM, spans about 150 kb of genomic DNA.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of each of the germline mutations in these prostate cancer patients closely matched their incidence (about 1%) in the general Ashkenazi Jewish population.
Biochemical analysis has demonstrated that the mobility and expression levels of the mutant forms of emerin are indistinguishable from that of wild-type emerin, but that they have weakened interactions with nuclear lamina components.
To study its role in adipogenesis and obesity, we examined Hmgic expression in the adipose tissue of adult, obese mice.
Germline mutations in BRCA1 are responsible for most cases of inherited breast and ovarian cancer.
We used RT-PCR to amplify the Hgd cDNA from Hgd aku /Hgd(aku) mice.
We describe three HEXA mutations associated with infantile Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) in three unrelated nonconsanguineous Chinese families.
In this family, a missense mutation in SCN1B cosegregates with the GEFS+ phenotype.
DNA sequencing confirmed all alterations represented by aberrant bands.
Furthermore, in contrast to the normal DMPK 3'-UTR mRNA, a mutant DMPK 3'-UTR mRNA with CUG (200)selectively inhibited myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts.
Germline mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumor-suppressor gene result in familial adenomatous polyposis FAP.
Furthermore, tissues from DM patients exhibit somatic mosaicism that increases with age.
The other mutation is a G-to-A transition resulting in an Arg170-to-Gln substitution.
In other cases as well, a correlation was found between the amount of normal or mutant WASP present and the phenotypes of the affected individuals.
Imprinting of this region involves a bipartite 'imprinting centre' (IC), which overlaps SNRPN refs 10,11.
We described 6 patients (from 3 families) affected with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis CTX.
In the remaining cases three different variants were identified.
We infer that the coexistence of the two mutations is responsible for enzyme deficiency in G6PD A- because they act synergistically in causing instability of the enzyme..
To address the molecular basis of disease in Zellweger syndrome patients from CG1, we examined all 24 PEX1 exons in four patients, including both patients that have mutations in PMP70.
Immunochemical studies demonstrated that the Sit(a) epitopes reside on platelet glycoprotein (GP) Ia.
Normal feline beta-glucuronidase cDNA was cloned and characterized, and amplified from affected cat fibroblasts by reverse transcription coupled polymerase chain reaction.
Two brothers, 6 and 13 years old, had histidinemia.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is the most prevalent inherited neuromuscular disease in adults.
At least two of these mutations have been identified on two different chromosome 19p13 haplotypes and thus represent recurrent mutations.
So far 17 mutations have been characterised in AKU patients of different ethnic origin.
Abnormalities of chromosome region 15q11-13 are associated with Angelman syndrome (AS) and Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
These results suggest a large homozygous deletion (at least 30 kb) in the patient.
At least 75% of these tumours possess mutations affecting the amino-terminal segment, normally involved in phosphorylation-dependent, ubiquitin-mediated degradation of the protein.
We conclude that persons with PROS1 gene defects and protein S deficiency are at increased risk of thrombosis and that free protein S estimation offers the most reliable way of diagnosing the deficiency.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Identification of mutations in the XLRS1 gene and expanded information on clinical manifestations will facilitate early diagnosis, appropriate early therapy, and genetic counseling regarding the prognosis of XLRS..
Moreover, we were able to restore the peroxisomal beta-oxidation defect in the liver of ALDP-deficient mice by stimulation of ALDRP and PMP70 gene expression through a dietary treatment with the peroxisome proliferator fenofibrate.
mtDNA deletions have been described, and a gene (WFS1) recently has been identified, on chromosome 4p16, encoding a predicted 890 amino acid transmembrane protein.
These in vitro activities are the highest reported for mutant PAH enzymes produced in the same expression system. ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS.
Patients homozygous for a single truncating mutation, typically near the N-terminal end of the gene, or heterozygous for the in-frame deletion 2546 3, were shorter and had significantly shorter survival than those heterozygous for a splice site or missense mutation, or heterozygous for two truncating mutations.
As this mutation leads to a loss of protein function its frequency makes it the most common cause of Zellweger syndrome, helping to explain the high percentage of patients that belong to CG1..
We recently identified the gene causing FMF, designated MEFV, and found it to be expressed in mature neutrophils, suggesting that it functions as an inflammatory regulator.
Seven new paternally expressed transcripts localize to an approximately 1.5-Mb domain surrounding the SNRPN-associated imprinting center, which already includes four imprinted, paternally expressed genes.
Using a combination of affinity- and conventional chromatographic techniques, we have isolated a predominant form of a multiprotein BRCA1-containing complex from human cells displaying chromatin-remodeling activity.
Five of the mutations are newly reported herein.
OCRL1 encodes a phosphatidylinositol 4, 5-biphosphate PtdIns 4,5 P2 5-phosphatase.
Homozygosity for either mutation results in postnatal iron loading.
The murine equivalent of CHS, beige mice, present similar characteristics but do not develop the lymphoproliferative syndrome.
Argininemia is a rare autossomal recessive disorder caused by deficiency in the cytosolic liver-type arginase enzyme L-arginine urea-hydrolase; E.C. 3.5.3.1.
Atelosteogenesis type II (AO II) is a neonatally lethal chondrodysplasia whose clinical and histological characteristics resemble those of another chondrodysplasia, the much less severe diastrophic dysplasia DTD.
To expedite screening, we sequentially loaded the SSCP gels with three different sets of PCR products that were pretested to avoid overlapping patterns.
This finding is consistent with the presence of the N370S mutation in the non-Jewish European population prior to the founding of the AJ population.
Four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were found in the FALDH gene.
Therefore, loss of the expressed paternal alleles of maternally imprinted genes must be responsible for the PWS phenotype.
This complex localizes to DSBs within 30 minutes after cellular exposure to ionizing radiation (IR) and is observed in brightly staining nuclear foci after a longer period of time.
No TSG101 defects were found in matched normal breast tissue from the breast cancer patients.
However, analysis of the variance in repeat number in sperm from the French MJD patients overlapped significantly with the variance in repeat number observed in the C/C homozygous Japanese patients..
Biochemical studies indicated VLCAD deficiency caused by a stable yet inactive enzyme.
Thus, PRAD1 is an excellent candidate "BCL1 oncogene." Its overexpression may be a key consequence of rearrangement of the BCL1 vicinity in B-cell neoplasms and a unifying pathogenetic feature in centrocytic lymphoma..
The PDGF receptor kinase inhibitor CGP57148B reversed the transformed phenotype and reduced the growth rate of COLIA1/PDGFB-expressing cells but had no effects on control cells.
A highly conserved haplotype at four markers flanking GBA (PKLR, D1S1595, D1S2721, and D1S2777) was observed on both the AJ chromosomes and the non-Jewish N370S chromosomes, suggesting the occurrence of a founder common to both populations.
A more complete understanding of the functional physiology of cathepsin C carries significant implications for understanding normal and abnormal skin development and periodontal disease susceptibility..
These data implicate Bax and caspase-3 as death effectors in neurodegenerative pathways..
Recently, a gene responsible for this disease, designated XLRS1, was identified, and several deleterious gene mutations were reported.
Molecular genetic and fluorescent hybridisation studies have shown that loci D5S37 and D5S98 are outside the deletion whereas loci detected by probes EF5.44 and YN5.48 are lost.
BRCA1 encodes a tumor suppressor that is mutated in familial breast and ovarian cancers.
The ATM (A-T, mutated) gene on human chromosome 11q22.3 has recently been identified as the gene responsible for the human recessive disease ataxia-telangiectasia A-T.
These findings have diagnostic implications as well as pointing to functionally important regions of the emerin protein..
The human PAX6 gene produces two alternative splice isoforms that have the distinct structure of the paired domain.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM), the most common form of muscular dystrophy in adult humans, results from expansion of a CTG repeat in the 3' untranslated region of the DMPK gene.
We conclude that the APC I1307K variant leads to increased adenoma formation and directly contributes to 3%-4% of all Ashkenazi Jewish colorectal cancer.
We cloned and sequenced the four G6PD variants from Sardinia and found that only two mutations are responsible for G6PD deficiency in this area: one mutation is the cause of the G6PD Seattle-like phenotype, a milder form of G6PD deficiency; the other mutation is responsible for all forms of very severe G6PD deficiency in Sardinia and, possibly, in the Mediterranean..
To date gene loci have been identified in at least six autosomal dominant forms, i.e., in idiopathic torsion dystonia (9q34), focal dystonia (18p), adult-onset idiopathic torsion dystonia of mixed type (8p21-q22), dopa-responsive dystonia (14q22.1-q22.2), and paroxysmal dystonic choreoathetosis 2q25-q33; 1p21-p13.3.
Type I C2 deficiency was described in a family in which the C2 null allele (C2Q0) is associated with the major histocompatibility haplotype/complotype HLA-A25,B18,C2Q0,BfS,C4A4, C4B2,Drw2; this extended haplotype occurs in over 90% of C2-deficient individuals common complotype/haplotype.
Eleven of the 15 kindreds manifesting BRCA1 mutations were breast-ovarian cancer families, several of them with a predominant ovarian cancer phenotype.
Although this mutation was initially detected in four of 33 colorectal cancer families analysed from eastern England, more extensive analysis has reduced the frequency to four of 52 (8%) English HNPCC kindreds analysed.
The molecular basis of C7 deficiency has been investigated in two Irish families and a number of Israeli families of Moroccan Sephardic Jewish origin.
None of control individuals possessed the WASPdim population.
These findings are thought to provide evidence against the concept that the gene for ankylosing spondylitis is not B27 but a closely linked gene and favour the occurrence of an environmental event affecting approximately one-fifth of B27 positive males to result in disease..
The Huntington disease (HD) phenotype is associated with expansion of a trinucleotide repeat in the IT15 gene, which is predicted to encode a 348-kDa protein named huntington.
Functional analysis showed that 4666insA, a common somatic mutation in APC(AS9) in these tumors, did not inactivate the wild-type APC.
Palmoplantar keratosis, varying from mild psoriasiform scaly skin to overt hyperkeratosis, typically develops within the first three years of life.
Analysis of genomic DNA from 22 Sit(a)-negative normal individuals showed that the Thr(799) is encoded by ACG(2532) (90.9%) or ACA(2532) 9.1%.
X-linked retinoschisis is characterized by microcystic-like changes of the macular region and schisis within the inner retinal layers, leading to visual deterioration in males.
Monocytes from all nine WAS carriers showed varied population of WASPdim together with WASPbright.
We have previously identified the protein product of the nm23-H1 gene in two-dimensional electrophoretic gels and have designated it p19/nm23.
All VWS families studied to date map the disease gene to a < 2 cM region of chromosome 1q32, with no evidence of locus heterogeneity.
Recently we have isolated the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene which causes familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), and its germ-line mutations in a substantial number of FAP patients have been identified.
Using homozygosity mapping in eight small consanguineous families, we have narrowed the candidate region to a 1.2-cM interval between D11S4082 and D11S931.
In this case, PWS does not become evident as long as the deletion is passed through the matrilineal line.
The monoclonal antibody 1C2 is known preferentially to bind expanded polyglutamine, but we find that it also binds a fragment of ataxin-3 containing a normal glutamine repeat.
In order to determine whether there are particular regions on 22q11 that are prone to rearrangements, the deletion end-points in a large number of VCFS/DGS patients were defined by haplotype analysis.
The gene Prph2 encodes a photoreceptor-specific membrane glycoprotein, peripherin-2 (also known as peripherin/rds), which is inserted into the rims of photoreceptor outer segment discs in a complex with rom-1 ref. 2.
To establish a DNA typing technique, we elucidated the organization of the GPIa gene adjacent to the polymorphic bases.
To investigate whether the presence of rare HRAS1 alleles increases susceptibility to hereditary breast and ovarian cancer, we have typed a panel of 307 female BRCA1 carriers at this locus using a PCR-based technique.
Whole genomic hprt clones were used in Southern analysis to screen the integrity of the hprt gene in a family that includes a patient with HPRT enzyme deficiency causal to Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.
We determined by deletion analysis that an expanded (CTG) (n) tract alone was sufficient to mediate these cis effects.
Of 133 living female relatives, 83 (62%) were tested for the presence of a mutation.
No clinical disease was associated with this deficiency which was transmitted through the subject's family as a single genetic characteristic, the C6 deficiency being associated with a silent allele at the structural locus.
In the inv(X) carried by several affected family members, FISH showed PLP signals at Xp11.4 and Xq22.
OBJECTIVES: To conduct mutational analyses in 29 Japanese patients with ALD from 29 unrelated families, to obtain knowledge of the spectrum of mutations in this gene, and to study genotype-phenotype correlations in Japanese patients.
A case of human complete C6 deficiency is reported.
Twenty-eight YAC clones were identified by screening human YAC libraries with twelve PCR-based sequence-tagged sites (STSs) from the region.
Truncated ATM protein was not detected in lymphoblasts from ataxia-telangiectasia patients homozygous for mutations leading to premature protein termination.
We studied a previously described Swiss family with inherited C9 deficiency.
Aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) is caused by deficient activity of the enzyme aspartylglucosaminidase AGA.
About 98% of mutant alleles have an expansion of a GAA trinucleotide repeat in intron 1 of the gene.
We also have developed rapid, nonradioactive assays for the detection of each mutation, which should be helpful for carrier screening..
The high prevalence of HFE mutations in Denmark suggests that population screening for the C282Y mutation could be highly advantageous in terms of preventive health care.
Surprisingly, in the frataxin knockout mouse, no iron accumulation was observed during embryonic resorption, suggesting that cell death could be due to a mechanism independent of iron accumulation..
Phosphorylation of this site appears to be functionally important because mutated nibrin (S343A) does not completely complement radiosensitivity in NBS cells.
In this study we describe a three-generation family in which two siblings were affected by Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
We report five new beta-galactosidase gene mutations in nine Italian patients and one fetus, segregating in seven unrelated families.
However, his oral clearance of nifedipine and chlorpheniramine did not differ from individuals in other studies performed at our laboratories.
Alstrom syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by retinal degeneration, sensorineural hearing loss, early-onset obesity, and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
The gene responsible for the disease (PDS) has been cloned, but its function is as yet unknown and the connection between thyroid goiter and sensory-neural deafness remains an enigma.
A family in which two male siblings were affected with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) was studied using G-6-PD isoenzymes as an X-linked marker in order to investigate the nature of cellular abnormalities.
This phosphorylation is also important for the ability of BRCA1 to restore survival after DNA damage in the BRCA1-mutated cell line HCC1937..
Cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4, also known as CD152) has been shown to play a major role in the regulation of T cell activation.
Since some gastric cancers are considered to originate from the intestinal metaplasia, it is likely that the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene, the mutation of which causes adenomatous polyps in the colon, is associated with carcinogenesis of gastric cancer.
In the complete set of families, a maximum two-point LOD score of 1.10 was observed at D1S413 at a recombination fraction theta of.1 , with a maximum NPL (nonparametric linkage) Z score of 1.64 at D1S202 P=.05.
On the basis of this homology and the presence of a slightly modified sulfate-transporter signature sequence comprising its putative second transmembrane domain, pendrin has been proposed to function as a sulfate transporter.
Eighteen (69%) of 26 mutations were missense mutations.
These findings demonstrate that the DNA-binding domains of HMG I-C, in the absence of a C-terminal fusion partner, are sufficient to perturb adipogenesis and predispose to lipomas.
The rapid identification of mutations causing Tay-Sachs disease requires the capacity to readily screen the regions of the HEXA gene most likely to be affected by mutation.
Factor H deficiency is the only complement deficiency associated with HUS.
The size of this fragment varies between affected siblings, and increases in size through generations in parallel with increasing severity of the disease.
Single-sperm typing techniques were performed for each sample by study of two informative short tandem repeats located either in or close to the retinoblastoma gene RB1.
The discovery of the FRDA gene and its possible function has raised hope that rational therapeutic strategies will be developed..
We subsequently showed that all the deletions were identical to the base pair and probably resulted from a nonhomologous recombination mediated by 7-bp direct repeats.
Third, toxic effects of the repeat expansion may be intrinsic to the repeated elements at the level of DNA or RNA refs 10,11.
None of the patients harbored identical mutations suggesting that the mutational heterogeneity in VLCAD deficiency is large..
A considerable amino acid sequence homology was observed between the mouse and human (47.6% identity and 65.5% similarity) and between the mouse and rat genes 73.5% identity and 82.1% similarity.
Of all the inherited thrombophilic conditions, it remains the most difficult to diagnose because of phenotypic variability, which can lead to inconclusive results.
These analyses identified two novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms (INV4+31A-->G and INV11+18A-->G) and six novel AKU mutations (INV1-1G-->A, W60G, Y62C, A122D, P230T, and D291E), which further illustrates the remarkable allelic heterogeneity found in AKU.
Four probands failed to inherit a maternal allele, and one failed to inherit a paternal allele.
Both mutations caused an increase in RANK-mediated nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) signalling in vitro, consistent with the presence of an activating mutation..
FMR1 YAC transgenic mice overexpressing the human protein did produce opposing behavioral responses and additional abnormal behaviors were also observed.
A susceptibility gene on chromosome 18 and a parent-of-origin effect have been suggested for bipolar affective disorder BPAD.
The mutations found in our cases occurred in the same exon of the WT1 gene as detected in Denys-Drash syndrome (DDS) and could not be explained by the previously proposed mechanism.
Chromosome translocations involving 11p13 have been associated with familial aniridia in two kindreds highlighting the chromosomal localization of the AN2 locus.
The serum transferrin saturation was 45 percent or higher in 15 of the 16 who were homozygous; in 1 subject it was 43 percent.
Inactivation of both alleles of the RB1 gene during normal retinal development initiates the formation of a retinoblastoma (RB) tumor.
There was no significant correlation between the size of the smaller allele and cardiomyopathy, diabetes mellitus, loss of proprioception, or bladder symptoms.
Of 13 B27 positive fathers 3 could be diagnosed as having definite ankylosing spondylitis 23%.
This observation raises doubts concerning the most recently published assignment of ESD to 13q14.1. A deletion in an individual with retinoblastoma was reported to separate the closely linked ESD and retinoblastoma (RB1) loci, placing ESD proximal to RB1.
More ovarian cancers than breast cancers were recorded.
Expression experiments by transfection of the mutant NIS complimentary DNA into COS-7 cells showed no perchlorate-sensitive iodide uptake, confirming that the mutation is the direct cause of the iodide transport defect in these patients.
An apparent abnormal clone of cells, possessing a large acrocentric marker chromosome (14q+), was observed in varying proportions among cells of all the propositi 2-5% of lymphocytes; 1-9% of fibroblasts ..
Alterations of the length or amino acid composition of the A-T gene product affect the A-T clinical phenotype in different ways.
RNA blotting analysis has revealed that GLDC is expressed in human liver, kidney, brain, and placenta.
We have previously assigned the Friedreich ataxia locus (FRDA) to chromosome 9; the current maximal lod score between FRDA and MCT112 (D9S15) is greater than 50 at a recombination fraction of theta = 0.
In addition to the 19 mutations, a total of 15 different polymorphic variants were scored, most of which were recurring.
No locus other than chromosome 11p13 has been implicated in aniridia, and PAX6 is clearly the major, if not only, gene responsible.
These patients were mostly men, of non-North African origin, P < 0.05 compared to controls.
Haplotype analysis of the STM7/X25 region of chromosome 9 demonstrated that the relevant portion of chromosome 9 differs in the patients.
BRCA1 exists in nuclear foci but is hyperphosphorylated and disperses after DNA damage.
We show here that an evolutionary analysis is a key to understanding the biology of a housekeeping gene.
The identification of the second mutational event in 10 (43%) tumors establishes PTEN/MMAC1 as a main inactivation target of 10q loss in sporadic prostate cancer..
These results suggest that emerin anchors at the inner nuclear membrane through the hydrophobic stretch, and protrudes from the hydrophilic region to the nucleoplasm where it interacts with the nuclear lamina.
This indicates that there is a heavy ascertainment bias in the selection of patients for PAX6 mutation analysis and that the 'missing' PAX6 missense mutations frequently may underlie phenotypes distinct from textbook aniridia.
Moreover, we observed the occurrence of de novo mutations between parental and grandparental generations in 17 three-generation families, which allowed a direct estimation of the k value k=11.
BRCA1 abnormalities were identified in all four families with ovarian cancer only, in 67% of 27 families with both breast and ovarian cancer, and in 34% of 35 families with breast cancer only.
A diagnosis of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (MIM 312080) was made in a young boy.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is the most common inherited ataxia.
We previously reported a recombination in an individual with myotonic dystrophy (DM) which placed the markers D19S19 and APOC2 on the same side of the DM locus.
The adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumour-suppressor protein controls the Wnt signalling pathway by forming a complex with glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta), axin/conductin and betacatenin.
As a cause of C9 deficiency, we found two different point mutations, both generating TGA stop codons in the coding sequence.
Sequence analysis of the amplified products has revealed a single missense mutation in SGLT1 which cosegregates with the GGM phenotype and results in a complete loss of Na(+)-dependent glucose transport in Xenopus oocytes injected with this complementary RNA..
The first predictive testing for Huntington disease (HD) was based on analysis of linked polymorphic DNA markers to estimate the likelihood of inheriting the mutation for HD.
Hereditary hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome (HPT-JT) is an autosomal dominant disease (OMIM 145001) that has recently been mapped to chromosomal region 1q21-q32 HRPT2.
It is possible that analogous to an activated/altered growth factor receptor oncogene, codon 877 mutant AR with altered ligand binding may provide a selective growth advantage in the genesis of a subset of advanced prostate cancer.
To investigate this mechanism, we analyzed sperm samples from six individuals from five unrelated families affected with hereditary retinoblastoma.
These data demonstrate that the disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and that lymphocytes and fibroblasts can be used to detect carriers.
Numerous additional splice products were detected, most involving skipping of one or more surrounding exons.
The results indicate close linkage between the WAS and OATL1 loci (Z = 6.08 at theta = 0.00) and localize the TIMP, OATL1, DXS255, and WAS loci distal to DXS146 and the OATL1 and WAS loci proximal to TIMP.
Activation of the ATM kinase by ionizing radiation and induction of ATM-dependent responses in NBS cells indicated that p95/nbs1 may not be required for signalling to ATM after ionizing radiation.
Six5+/- and Six5-/- mice show increased steady-state levels of the Na+/K+-ATPase alpha-1 subunit and decreased Dm15 mRNA levels.
HFE specifically reduces iron uptake from Tf, as non-Tf-mediated iron uptake from Fe-nitrilotriacetic acid is not altered.
We have searched for mutations in the choroideremia gene (CHM) in patients from 12 Danish families in which CHM is segregating.
Mutations in Prph2 have been shown to result in a variety of photoreceptor dystrophies, including autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa and macular dystrophy.
Disruption of Hmgic caused a reduction in the obesity induced by leptin deficiency (Lepob/Lepob) in a gene-dose-dependent manner.
Presence of a large deletion involving exons 9, 10 and 11 of the phenylalanine hydroxylase gene was confirmed by long-range PCR.
In view of this discrepancy, we examined the frequency of ATM germline mutations in a selected group of Dutch patients with breast cancer.
Fragments of the arylsulfatase A (ARSA) gene from a patient with juvenile-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) were amplified by PCR and ligated into MP13 cloning vectors.
The rare diseases ataxia-telangiectasia (AT), caused by mutations in the ATM gene, and Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS), with mutations in the p95/nbs1 gene, share a variety of phenotypic abnormalities such as chromosomal instability, radiation sensitivity and defects in cell-cycle checkpoints in response to ionizing radiation.
Frataxin deficiency is the primary cause of Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), an autosomal recessive cardiodegenerative and neurodegenerative disease.
Recent studies demonstrated the existence of a genetically distinct, usually lethal form of the Schwartz-Jampel syndrome (SJS) of myotonia and skeletal dysplasia, which we called SJS type 2.
Although Kaposi sarcoma can arise in the face of the severe immunosuppression that follows allograft transplantation and in patients infected with HIV, we postulate that longevity in the face of mild immunosuppression was the major factor in the development of Kaposi sarcoma in this patient..
None of the 13 families with cases of male breast cancer appear to be linked, but it is estimated that 92% (95% confidence interval 76%-100%) of families with no male breast cancer and with two or more ovarian cancers are linked to BRCA1.
It is concluded that mutation analysis at the DNA level is not sufficient for predicting clinical course.
We defined the genomic structure of CTSC and found mutations in all eight families.
Therefore, although the major IR-induced apoptotic pathway in the CNS requires Atm and Bax, a p53-dependent collateral pathway exists that has both Atm- and Bax-independent branches.
We have developed an inexpensive system for gene mutational scanning, based on a combination of extensive multiplex PCR amplification and two dimensional electrophoresis.
CONCLUSIONS: The I1307K APC variant may represent a susceptibility gene for colorectal, or other, cancers in Ashkenazi Jews, and partially explains the higher incidence of colorectal cancer in European Israelis..
The finding that ATM-heterozygotes have an increased relative risk for breast cancer was supported by some studies but not confirmed by others.
Our findings are consistent with a novel molecular pathogenetic mechanism for myotonic dystrophy: both the normal and expanded DM kinase genes are transcribed in patient muscle, but the abnormal expansion-containing RNA has a dominant effect on RNA metabolism by preventing the accumulation of poly(A)+ RNA.
The human eye malformation aniridia results from haploinsufficiency of PAX6, a paired box DNA-binding protein.
The present study describes a combined analysis for six markers in the 1q24-25 region in 772 families affected by hereditary prostate cancer and ascertained by the members of the International Consortium for Prostate Cancer Genetics (ICPCG) from North America, Australia, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.
The advantages of this test are (1) plucking of hair follicles does no appreciable harm to the mentally retarded patient, (2) hairs can be sent in a simple envelope to a diagnostic center, and (3) the result of the test is available within 5 h of plucking.
To investigate this hypothesis, we developed hamster-human somatic hybrid cell lines from VCFS/DGS patients with all three classes of deletions and we now show that the breakpoints occur within similar low copy repeats, termed LCR22s.
In leukemia cells obtained from patients with different subtypes of acute leukemia, p19/nm23 levels were also increased relative to resting normal lymphocytes.
One of the target genes for beta-catenin/TCF encodes c-MYC, explaining why constitutive activation of the WNT pathway can lead to cancer, particularly in the colon.
The absence of severe phenylketonuria (PKU) in both Polynesians and Southeast Asians is consistent with the lack of PAH haplotypes 2 and 3, on which the severe PKU mutants have arisen among Caucasians..
Three congenital anomaly disorders, cat-eye syndrome, der() syndrome and velo-cardio-facial syndrome/DiGeorge syndrome (VCFS/DGS) are associated with tetrasomy, trisomy or monosomy, respectively, for part of chromosome 22q11.
The genetic defects responsible for most phenylketonuria (PKU) and hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA) cases are located in the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) gene.
Several alleles for the CYP2C9 gene have been reported.
Restriction mapping of the YAC indicates that it contains both MAOA and MAOB genes in addition to the DXS7 locus.
Genetic analyses of Japanese C9 deficiency have shown that a C-to-T transition leading to TGA stop codon for Arg95 in exon 4 of the C9 gene (Arg95Stop) is common in Japanese C9 deficiency.
The primary defect could, indeed, be traced to an augmented duodenal iron absorption.
The mouse WASP gene, the homolog of the gene mutated in Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, has been isolated and sequenced.
In 0.1% of affected males, however, the plasma C26:0 level is borderline normal, and 15% of obligate female carriers have normal results.
Of the 15 families that contain cases of ovarian cancer, 94% were estimated to be linked to BRCA1.
Apoptosis has recently been recognized as a mode of cell death in Huntington disease HD.
For within-family association studies, 361 families including 161 parent-case trios and 200 affected sibling-pair families were employed.
We show that hCds1 and BRCA1 interact and co-localize within discrete nuclear foci but separate after gamma irradiation.
The present results question the sensitivity of the perchlorate test for the diagnosis of Pendred syndrome and support the use of a molecular analysis of the PDS gene in the assessment of individuals with severe to profound congenital hearing loss associated with inner ear morphological anomaly even in the absence of a thyroid goiter..
This is the most comprehensive compilation of ATM polymorphisms assembled to date.
Anterior segment developmental disorders, including Axenfeld-Rieger anomaly (ARA), variably associate with harmfully elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), which causes glaucoma.
There are at least eight clinically distinct autosomal dominant and two X-linked recessive forms.
Therefore, HFE appears to reduce cellular acquisition of iron from Tf within endocytic compartments.
These studies shed further light on the genotype-phenotype correlation of MPS IVA and structure-function relationship in the sulfatase family..
Nucleotide sequence analysis of GPIa cDNA derived from Sit(a)-positive platelets showed C 2531 -->T(2531) point mutation, resulting in Thr(799)Met dimorphism.
This effect, rather than depending on ligand-induced receptor oligomerization, was found to stem from ligand- independent interaction of wild-type and mutant Fas receptors through a specific region in the extracellular domain.
We also found random X-inactivation in the mother of the patient who was shown to be a carrier of this deletion..
Its membrane expression is highly regulated by endocytosis and trafficking through the secretory lysosome pathway.
There were no obvious mutation hot spots or clusters.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is caused by the loss of expression of imprinted genes in chromosome 15q11-q13.
Studies at the mRNA level showed that the latter led to altered pre-mRNA splicing with consequent alteration of the mRNA translational reading frame and generation of a premature termination codon of translation.
The patient was hemizygous for both the KIT and PDGFRA genes, indicating that both of these genes are included within the deleted region.
We detected a significant segregation distortion in the data as a whole (P=.0099) and a significant heterogeneity in the segregation rate across donors .0092.
Overall, the establishment of a likely "hemochromatosis critical region" centromeric boundary and the identification of a linkage-disequilibrium zone both significantly contribute to a reduction in the amount of DNA required to be searched for novel coding sequences constituting the HFE defect..
Here we describe a new diagnostic test to identify male patients with fragile X syndrome, on the basis of lack of FMRP in their hair roots.
Emerin was not detected in the biopsied muscle, and RT-PCR and PCR-based genomic DNA analyses of the emerin gene demonstrated no amplification product in the patient.
Short regions of sequence homology were present at the three sites.
In addition, preliminary pedigree analysis suggests that the gene for canine C3 deficiency is apparently not closely linked to the major histocompatibility complex of the dog.
The hyperalphalipoproteinemia caused by CETP deficiency is fairly common in Japan and one of the most common mutations in the CETP gene is the splicing defect of the intron 14, the allelic frequency of which has been shown to be 0.0049 in the Japanese general population.
C7 M/N protein polymorphism allotyping, used to investigate the segregation of the C7 deficiency genes, showed that the apparently complement sufficient brother was heterozygous C7 deficient and a carrier of one of the deficiency genes.
HFE is an MHC-related protein that is mutated in the iron-overload disease hereditary hemochromatosis.
It is well known that an elevated frequency of TSD mutations exists among Ashkenazi Jews.
The disease gene (PDS) has been mapped to chromosome 7q22-q31, and encodes a chloride-iodide transport protein.
Wilms tumor has so far only been associated with sporadic de novo aniridia cases.
Constitutional mutations of the WT1 gene, encoding a zinc-finger transcription factor involved in renal and gonadal development, are found in most patients with Denys-Drash syndrome (DDS), or diffuse mesangial sclerosis (DMS) associated with pseudohermaphroditism and/or Wilms tumor WT.
The gene structure of FHF2 was determined and two new exons were identified, including a new 5' end exon, 1B.
One hundred and twenty-eight of 145 patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) were found to be HLA B27 positive.
Women who carry a mutation in the BRCA1 gene (on chromosome 17q21), have an 80% risk of breast cancer and a 40% risk of ovarian cancer by the age of 70 ref. 1.
Here we demonstrate that nibrin is phosphorylated within one hour of treatment of cells with IR.
Here we describe the use of two sequences from the human Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene that cross-hybridize to mouse X-linked sequences to localize the gene homologous to DMD in the mouse.
In order to test the effect of this substitution, an in vitro mutagenized cDNA construct was introduced into a mammalian expression vector and transfected into monkey Cos-1 cells separately or along with a beta-cDNA expression vector.
We found constitutional deletions in 29 of 30 VHL patients in this group using cosmid and P1 probes that cover the VHL locus.
We observed a consistent, although modest, reactivation of the FMR1 gene with 4-phenylbutyrate, sodium butyrate and trichostatin A, as shown by RT-PCR.
We searched for criteria that could indicate breast cancer families with a high prior probability of being caused by the breast/ovarian cancer susceptibility locus BRCA1 on chromosome 17.
The serum of a 29-year old woman with a recent episode of disseminated gonococcal infection and a history of meningococcal meningitis and arthritis as a child was found to lack serum hemolytic complement activity.
We conclude that the codon change N314D in cis with the base-pair transition 1721C--T produces the LA variant of galactosemia and that this nucleotide change increases GALT activity by increasing GALT protein abundance without increasing transcription or decreasing thermal lability.
Three of these patients had pure spinal SEP abnormalities and in the remaining two patients SEPs showed signs of involvement of both the spinal and cerebral somatosensory tracts.
We observed RCC in at least one member of the VHL families in 77% of cases with mutations leading to truncated proteins versus 55% in cases with missense mutations P < 0.05.
Because the CCC sequence motifs comprise a significant proportion (34.5%) of all mutated bases that have been observed in HGO, we conclude that the CCC triplet is a mutational hot spot in HGO..
The chromosome 22q11 region is susceptible to rearrangements that are associated with congenital anomaly disorders and malignant tumors.
The diagnosis was clarified by molecular analysis of the DTDST gene, which revealed homozygosity for a previously undescribed mutation leading to a Q454P substitution in the 10th transmembrane domain of the DTDST sulfate transporter.
Five of nine siblings of the patient, comprising two cerebral ALD, one adrenomyeloneuropathy, one Addison only as well as the symptomatic mother (all accumulating very long chain fatty acids) carried this mutation, which was not found in the unaffected persons, in five unrelated ALD patients, and in twenty controls.
This represents the first point mutation not resulting in a proposed truncated protein.
Since the newly created donor splice site is likely to compete with the normal one, variations of the levels of normal and aberrant transcripts of the PDS gene in the cochlea may explain the variability in the deafness presentation..
The 8 ARSA exons and adjacent intron boundaries from a patient with late-infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy were polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplified in seven discrete reactions.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral-contraceptive use may reduce the risk of ovarian cancer in women with pathogenic mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene..
The map derived from the YL1.28-YAC is compatible both with the map from an independently derived YAC carrying MAOA and B genes and with the long range genomic map for the region.
Choroideremia (CHM) is an X-linked progressive degeneration of the choroid and retina. 12% of unrelated male patients carry deletions of the partially cloned CHM gene.
The results reported here indicate that (1) familial adenomatous polyposis is caused by an extremely heterogeneous spectrum of point mutations; (2) all the mutations found in this study are chain terminating; and (3) DGGE represents a rapid and sensitive technique for the detection of mutations in the unusually large APC gene.
Juvenile retinoschisis is an X-linked recessive disease caused by mutations in the XLRS1 gene.
Inherited defects in the peroxisomal ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter adrenoleukodystrophy protein (ALDP) lead to the lethal peroxisomal disorder X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), for which no efficient treatment has been established so far.
Homozygous C2 deficiency in a 19-year-old boy was associated with variable immunodeficiency manifested by marked hypoimmunoglobulinemia and impaired antibody responses, normal circulating B lymphocytes, and subnormal T-cell functions.
The segregation probability of mutant RB1 alleles in sperm samples was assessed by use of the SPERMSEG program, which includes experimental parameters, recombination fractions between the markers, and segregation parameters.
One family manifesting an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance possessed three clinically affected members who were heterozygous for a splice-site mutation that was predicted to lead to the production of a truncated protein product.
The PAX3/FKHR fusion gene, formed by a t 2;13 (q35;q14) in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, encodes a hybrid protein that contains both PAX3 DNA binding domains, the paired box and homeodomain, linked to the bisected DNA binding domain of FKHR, a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors.
We then analyzed the occurrence of RCC in VHL families, based on the nature of mutations.
In total, recurrent mutations were found in 33 (94%) of the 35 families with detected mutations.
Deficiency of arylsulfatase A (ARSA) enzyme activity causes metachromatic leukodystrophy MLD.
There were no behavioural problems or sleep disturbance.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that mutations in the rds gene can be expressed as a macular dystrophy, with evidence of primary cone dysfunction and preservation of peripheral rod function..
These and other variants reported in the literature, which must thus far be regarded as sporadic, are found to map in parts of Italy where common types of G6PD deficiency are also prevalent..
We hypothesize that ACTC mutations affecting sarcomere contraction lead to FHC and that mutations affecting force transmission from the sarcomere to the surrounding syncytium lead to IDC..
Here, we report that the human homolog, TSG101, which we isolated and mapped to chromosome 11, bands 15.1-15.2, a region proposed to contain tumor suppressor gene(s), is mutated at high frequency in human breast cancer.
An allogeneic bone marrow transplant (BMT) from a normal HLA identical sibling donor was performed in a 13-year-old boy with rapidly progressive adrenoleukodystrophy ALD.
Histology, grade, stage, and success of cytoreductive surgery were similar for hereditary and sporadic cases.
Pair-wise analyses resulted in maximum lod (logarithm of the odds ratio) scores of 3.84 and 2.9, respectively.
We have previously described a disorder, normotriglyceridemic abetalipoproteinemia, that is characterized by the virtual absence of plasma low density lipoproteins and complete absence of apoB-100, but with apparently normal secretion of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins containing apoB-48.
The emerin gene has been mapped to Xq28 and encodes a 34-kDa serine-rich protein, emerin, which has been localized to the nuclear envelope in a wide variety of tissues, including skeletal and cardiac muscle.
We present a large kindred that contained patients with either adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) or adrenomyeloneuropathy AMN.
This study illustrates the extreme heterogeneity of G6PD deficiency among the people of Papua New Guinea..
Autosomal recessive Alport syndrome is a progressive hematuric glomerulonephritis characterized by glomerular basement membrane abnormalities and associated with mutations in either the COL4A3 or the COL4A4 gene, which encode the alpha3 and alpha4 type IV collagen chains, respectively.
A linkage study in 30 Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) kindreds using three cloned DNA sequences from the X chromosome which demonstrate restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs), suggests that the BMD gene is located on the short arm of the X chromosome, in the p21 region.
We describe a 19-year-old woman with typical MG and heterozygous C2 deficiency, along with HLA typing of the patient and her immediate family..
Adult-onset cerebral ALD also presents with rapidly progressive neurologic dysfunction.
We identified a treatment regimen that resulted in the presence of dystrophin in the cell membrane in all striated muscles examined and that provided functional protection against muscular injury.
APC and APC2 may therefore have comparable functions in development and cancer..
Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a common autosomal recessive genetic disorder of iron metabolism.
The cosmids isolated from these experiments were used to screen a panel of somatic cell hybrids containing chromosome 5 segregated from patients suspected to carry putative interstitial deletions.
Wilson disease (WD) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by copper accumulation in the liver, brain, kidneys, and corneas, and culminating in copper toxication in these organs.
Although the link between the BRCA1 tumour-suppressor gene and hereditary breast and ovarian cancer is established, the role, if any, of BRCA1 in non-familial cancers is unclear.
Atm-deficient mice then exhibit many of the same symptoms found in ataxia-telangiectasia patients and in cells derived from them.
We generated mice in which two loxP sites flank part of Piga exon 2.
These mutations segregated with mutant haplotype 12 alleles in nuclear families but were not present on normal or other mutant alleles.
Parent-of-origin studies were performed in five families.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is a recessive disorder characterized by episodes of fever and neutrophil-mediated serosal inflammation.
These techniques should prove useful in identifying carriers of severe von Willebrand disease and also in defining patients predictably at risk of developing alloantibodies to vWF..
A male Caucasian who participated in six bioavailability studies in our laboratory over a period of several years showed extremely low clearance of two drugs: phenytoin and glipizide (both substrates of CYP2C9), but not for nifedipine (a CYP3A4 substrate) and chlorpheniramine a CYP2D6 substrate.
We have performed a mutation survey of the RB1 gene in 232 patients with hereditary or non hereditary retinoblastoma.
The fragile site is not associated with mental retardation, it does not give abnormal results when subjected to Southern analysis with probe pfxa3 which detects the unstable DNA sequence characteristic of fragile X syndrome.
We also show that ATM physically interacts with and phosphorylates nibrin on serine 343 both in vivo and in vitro.
It is concluded that the most likely explanation for this defect is that the subject has a structural mutation in his C6 gene which produces hyopsynthesis not only of C6 but also of the closely linked gene for C7.
DiGeorge syndrome (DGS), a developmental field defect of the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches, is characterized by aplasia or hypoplasia of the thymus and parathyroid glands and by conotruncal cardiac malformations.
We measured resting ventilation, airway occlusion pressure P 0.1 and ventilatory response to CO(2) in nine children, aged 7-14 years, before and 6-9 months after the start of GH treatment.
The classic form of ALD usually has onset in childhood (childhood cerebral ALD), with rapid neurologic deterioration leading to a vegetative state.
Oocyte macropatch analysis revealed that the activation kinetics of T1620M were normal.
The mAb L10 was used to determine the distribution and the function of sialophorin, the heavily glycosylated surface molecule that is deficient/defective in lymphocytes of patients with the X-linked immunodeficiency Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.
Identification of the FMR1 gene and the repeat-amplification mechanism causing fragile X syndrome led to development of reliable DNA-based diagnostic methods, including Southern blot hybridization and PCR.
Most VCFS/DGS patients have a similar 3 Mb deletion, some have a nested distal deletion breakpoint resulting in a 1.5 Mb deletion and a few rare patients have unique deletions or translocations.
Our data support a tumour suppressor mechanism for BRCA1; somatic mutations and LOH may result in inactivation of BRCA1 in at least a small number of ovarian cancers..
These findings suggested a founder effect within Newfoundland similar to that reported by others for two MLH1 mutations in Finnish HNPCC families.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is caused by a CTG repeat expansion in the 3'UTR of the DM protein kinase (DMPK) gene.
Recently, a missense mutation in transmembrane domain 2 of CHRNA4 was found to be associated with autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy in one extended pedigree.
About half of all missense mutations have been examined by in vitro expression analysis, and a significant correlation has been observed between residual PAH activity and disease phenotype.
Our data support the hypothesis that DM is a contiguous gene syndrome associated with the partial loss of both DMPK and SIX5..
The other was at position 1186 converting an asp > asn in the predicted resultant protein.
We have detected a submicroscopic 11p13 deletion in a child with inherited aniridia who subsequently presented with Wilms tumor in a horseshoe kidney, only revealed at surgery.
Our data therefore provide evidence that nm23-H1 expression is related to cell proliferative activity..
Recently, we discovered that transgenic mice expressing an activated beta-catenin are predisposed to developing skin tumours resembling pilomatricomas.
Patients lacking this serum protein are essentially asymptomatic, apart from minimal ankle edema and ease of fatigue.
The penetrance of clinically obvious abnormalities varies with genetic background.
Although we did not observe dramatic expansions (or 'big jumps' over several hundred CTG repeats) as in congenital forms of DM, our model carrying >300 CTG is the first to show instability so close to the human DM situation.
These data suggest that intracytoplasmic CD95 mutations in ALPS impair apoptosis chiefly by disrupting death-domain interactions with the signaling protein FADD/MORT1..
Thus, genetic CETP deficiency appears to be an independent risk factor for CHD, primarily due to increased CHD prevalence in men with the D442G mutation and HDL cholesterol between 41 and 60 mg/dl.
No inherited form of GPI-anchor deficiency has been described.
In summary, inactivation of the murine ATP7B gene produces a form of cirrhotic liver disease that resembles Wilson disease in humans and the 'toxic milk' phenotype in the mouse..
On the basis of the present study, the mechanism of anhaptoglobinemia and the mechanism of anomalous inheritance of Hp phenotypes were well explained.
We report a novel mutation in the XK gene (XK) in a Japanese patient with McLeod syndrome.
The incidence of ovarian, gastric, and biliary system carcinomas and of leukemia and lymphoma was increased in these A-T families.
Forty-six per cent of patients with mutations 5' of the Dp260 transcript start site have abnormal ERGs, as opposed to 94% with more distal mutations.
Interestingly, all CHM gene mutations detected thus far in choroideremia patients give rise to the introduction of a premature stop codon..
Mutations were retrieved in most rhabdoid tumors, whatever their sites of occurrence, indicating the common pathogenetic origin of these tumors.
Primary dystonias are movement disorders with dystonia as a major symptom.
These results are distinct from those previously noted in abetalipoproteinemia, which was characterized by an elevated level of hepatic apoB mRNA and accumulation of intracellular hepatic apoB protein..
Our results suggest that the most important determinant in the ERG b-wave phenotype is the mutation position, rather than muscle disease severity.
BACKGROUND: SEPs and MEPs have proved useful in revealing signs of progressively severe, central dying-back axonopathy in early stages of adult-onset ALD.
Recurrent middle ear infections, a high pain threshold, and a great skill with jigsaw puzzles were reported.
These results confirmed the diagnosis of X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD), and reinforce the necessity of molecular genetic diagnosis of the membrane protein emerin in younger patients with possible EDMD before appearance of the typical symptoms, to avoid sudden cardiac death..
Analysis, using in addition two overlapping YAC clones from this region, allowed orientation of the MAOA and MAOB genes in a 5'-3'-3'-5' configuration.
In addition, we found that the GCH1 mRNA was transcribed from only one allele, indicating that the other allele was in an inactive state.
BRCA1 mutations cause increased risk for breast and ovarian cancer, frequently of early onset.
These splicing mutations led to a variety of consequences, including exon skipping and, to a lesser degree, intron retention, activation of cryptic splice sites, or creation of new splice sites.
The imprinting status of 22 expressed sequence tags derived from the radiation-hybrid human transcript maps or physical maps was determined in a reverse transcriptase-PCR assay and correlated with the position of the transcripts on the physical map.
The results indicate that mutation of the VHL gene is associated exclusively with the development of non-papillary renal cell carcinoma..
Three more frameshift mutations, 2 nonsense mutations, and a second splice site mutation were also identified.
Here, Luria and Delbruck's classical methods for analysing bacterial cultures are adapted to the study of human isolated founder populations in order to estimate (i) the recombination fraction between a disease locus and a marker; (ii) the expected degree of allelic homogeneity in a population; and (iii) the mutation rate of marker loci.
Clinical and biochemical evidence suggested that the increased carrier frequency was due to at least two altered alleles for the hexosaminidase A alpha-subunit.
Altogether, 70% of missense mutations are located in exon 15, and 52% of all mutations cluster in exons 11-15.
Comparing the distribution of mutations in a human housekeeping gene with evolutionary conservation is a useful tool for pinpointing amino acid residues important for the stability or the function of the corresponding protein.
Our results indicate that the severe form of prolidase deficiency is caused by multiple PEPD alleles.
We propose a model for pendrin function in the thyroid in which pendrin transports iodide across the apical membrane of the thyrocyte into the colloid space..
Genetically determined C3 deficiency in Brittany spaniel dogs shares a number of biochemical and clinical characteristics with the human disorder.
The apparent order of these loci is telomere ...
Finally, an extensive phenotyping of primary and secondary lymphoid organs including the gut provides no compelling evidence for an obvious immune-linked function for HFE..
We conclude that the onset of FMF in a late age defines a milder form of disease with typical clinical, demographic, and molecular genetic characteristics..
We have mapped the entire human SGLT1 Na+/glucose cotransporter gene from cosmid and lambda phage clones representing a genomic region of 112 kilobases.
Here we report that BRCA1 interacts in vivo and in vitro with the Rb-binding proteins, RbAp46 and RbAp48, as well as with Rb.
Direct DNA sequencing was done to screen the entire coding region of the WFS1 gene in 30 patients from 19 British kindreds with Wolfram syndrome.
Inherited mutations in the E-cadherin gene ( CDH1 ) were described recently in three Maori kindreds with familial gastric cancer.
It is disrupted and misexpressed in a number of mesenchymal tumour cell types, including fat-cell tumours lipomas.
The human Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is a rare neurological and behavioural disorder, affecting only males, which is caused by an inherited deficiency in the level of activity of the purine salvage enzyme hypoxanthine-guanosine phosphoribosyl transferase HPRT.
The RB1 gene mutation was investigated in a child with ectopic intracranial retinoblastoma using DNA obtained from both the pineal and retinal tumours of the patient.
Further linkage analyses of plausible candidate genes highly expressed in the adult human heart identified ACTC as the most likely disease gene, showing a maximal lod score of 3.6.
Mutations in the ARP gene are thus commonly observed in pancreatic cancer, as well as many other cancers..
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a metabolic disease caused by recessive mutations of the gene encoding the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
However, the limited data failed to reveal a correlation between mutation and disease phenotype.
We identified a novel NIS gene mutation, G395R (Gly395-->Arg; GGA-->AGA), in 10 patients examined in the present study.
These data demonstrate that ATM and the hMre11/hRad50/Nbs1 protein complex act in the same DNA damage response pathway and link hMre11 to the complex pathology of A-T..
Moreover, the BRCT domain associates with the histone deacetylases HDAC1 and HDAC2.
They are frequently inherited as Mendelian traits.
Renal amyloidosis, prevented by colchicine, is the most severe complication of FMF, a disorder associated with mutations in the MEFV gene.
These patients eventually go into end stage renal failure.
The other family members had heterozygous C2 deficiency and each member had the HLA-A25, B18, DR2 (w15) haplotype.
Subretinal injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) encoding a Prph2 transgene results in stable generation of outer segment structures and formation of new stacks of discs containing both perpherin-2 and rhodopsin, which in many cases are morphologically similar to normal outer segments.
BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for most cases of familial, early onset breast and/or ovarian cancer and encode products that each interact with hRAD51.
A very high level of instability is observed through successive generations and the size of the repeat is generally correlated with the severity of the disease and with age at onset.
In response to this stimulus, cytoplasmic beta-catenin (encoded by CTNNB1) is stabilized, enabling downstream transcriptional activation by members of the LEF/TCF family.
Therefore, we screened eight familial gastric cancer kindreds of British and Irish origin for germline CDH1 mutations, by SSCP analysis of all 16 exons and flanking sequences.
Opsonization and generation of chemotactic activity functioned normally.
In the 22 point mutations, 68% of mothers were heterozygous for the mutation, a value identical to the two-thirds of carrier mothers that would be expected if there were an equal mutation rate in male and female germ cells.
PWS is due to a lack of paternal genetic information at 15q11-q13 ref. 2.
Our limited data set on galactosemia mutations in Japanese suggests that the N314D GALT mutation encoding the Duarte variant arose before Asian and Caucasian people diverged and that classic galactosemia mutations arose and/or accumulated after the divergence of Asian and Caucasian populations..
One hundred and seven ovarian cancer cases were analyzed for BRCA1 alterations using the RNase mismatch cleavage assay followed by direct sequencing.
These findings show that BRCA1 is implicated in a small fraction of breast/ovarian cancer families suggesting the involvement of another susceptibility gene s ..
Germ-line mutations of the BRCA1 gene are responsible for a substantial proportion of families with multiple cases of early-onset breast and/or ovarian cancer.
By 4 weeks of age, the HFE-/- mice demonstrated iron loading when compared with HFE+/+ littermates, with elevated transferrin saturations (68.4% vs. 49.8%) and elevated liver iron concentrations 985 micrograms vs. 381 micrograms.
A missense mutation, Gly-561--Ser, was identified within the proposed glycoprotein Ib binding domain of vWF in the proband with von Willebrand disease type B, a unique variant characterized by no ristocetin-induced, but normal botrocetin-induced, binding to glycoprotein Ib.
In addition, since all of the families originated in a population with a proven founder effect-the Saguenay Lac-St.-Jean region of Quebec-a common disease haplotype was sought.
Here we report that, in two large case-control studies of over 2,000 African children, the common African form of G6PD deficiency (G6PD A-) is associated with a 46-58% reduction in risk of severe malaria for both female heterozygotes and male hemizygotes.
Interestingly, Arg-610 is located within one of the two pleckstrin homology (PH) domains of the FGD1 gene and it corresponds to a highly conserved residue which has been involved in InsP binding in PH domains of other proteins.
There were 59 deaths from malignant neoplasms in relatives dying before age 75, compared to 42.6 expected p less than 0.02.
In neuroblastoma, higher levels of p19/nm23, which are associated with amplification of the N-myc oncogene, large tumor mass, and metastasis, were observed in advanced stage tumors compared with limited stage disease.
This is in accordance with molecular findings in other patients with Kniest dysplasia and confirms, in the original patient, that the disorder is caused by small inframe deletions often due to exon skipping as a result of COL2A1 splice site mutations..
This idea is based partly on the phenotype of homozygous Krox20 ( Egr2 ) knockout mice, which display hypomyelination of the PNS and a block of Schwann cells at an early stage of differentiation.
Here, we characterize the altered effects of a human beta(1)-subunit hbeta 1 on the heterologously expressed hH1 mutation (T1620M) previously associated with IVF.
In contrast, goiter was present in only 11 affected individuals, who interestingly had a normal result of the perchlorate discharge test whenever performed.
DMR-N9 transcripts, mainly expressed in brain and testis, possess a single, large open reading frame, but the function of its protein product is unknown.
The risk for ovarian cancer was 2.11 times greater for BRCA1 carriers harbouring one or two rare HRAS1 alleles, compared to carriers with only common alleles P = 0.015.
Factor X deficiency is a rare haemorrhagic condition, normally inherited as an autosomal recessive trait, in which a variable clinical presentation correlates poorly with laboratory phenotype.
No pathogenic mtDNA mutations were found in our cohort.
Using large human flanking sequences and a large amplification, we demonstrate that the intergenerational CTG repeat instability is reproduced in mice, with a strong bias towards expansions and with the same sex- and size-dependent characteristics as in humans.
Additionally, the existence of a shared common haplotype for genetic loci flanking the cathepsin C gene suggests that affected subjects descended from the Cochin isolate are homozygous for a mutation inherited identical by descent" from a common ancestor. "
We have analysed over 300 patients suffering from Duchenne or Becker muscular dystrophy DMD or BMD.
Out of a total of 71 unique mutations, 50 were found only in a single family, and 51 had not been reported previously.
N314D is in linkage disequilibrium with other base changes that differ on the D1 and D2 alleles.
Allele specific oligonucleotide hybridization analysis using amplified genomic DNA showed that the mutant gene was transmitted from the maternal germ line.
Pediatric alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma is characterized by a chromosomal translocation that fuses parts of the PAX3 and FKHR genes.
Linkage analysis was carried out to 6 microsatellite markers (D1S249, D1S425, D1S491, D1S205, D1S414, D1S425), yielding a maximum cumulative LOD score of Z = 3.27 at theta = 0.00 for D1S245.
Consistent with another recent report, the E148Q mutation was observed in patients of several ethnicities and on multiple microsatellite haplotypes, but haplotype data indicate an ancestral relationships between non-Jewish Italian and Ashkenazi Jewish patients with FMF and other affected populations.
A candidate Wilms' tumor gene, WT1, from the 11p13 chromosome region has recently been cloned.
A new fragile site (FRAXE) in Xq28 is described.
RANK is essential in osteoclast formation.
Mutations causing disruption of the intracellular Fas death domain also showed a higher penetrance of ALPS phenotype features in mutation-bearing relatives.
Patients with FAP typically develop hundreds to thousands of benign colorectal tumors and early-onset colorectal cancer.
To ascertain the molecular mechanism that causes murine C5 deficiency, genomic and cDNA libraries were constructed from mouse liver DNA and mRNA employing the congenic strains B10.D2/nSnJ and B10.D2/oSnJ that are sufficient and deficient for C5, respectively.
Our findings suggest that in some patients, Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is caused by overexpression of PLP gene transcripts, and that in these families a 50% increase of DM20 messenger RNA in females, relative to the increase in affected males, can identify a female carrier..
The 68 Val-->Met mutation has not been found in a B background.
This observation confirms the existence of this entity and assigns it to the phenotypic spectrum associated with mutations at the DTDST locus..
Eight mutations, one of which (R408Q) is new, were found to account for 93% of the 163 independent FMF alleles, with both FMF alleles identified in 89% of the patients.
Using reverse transcriptase combined with polymerase chain reactions in the analysis of a number of lipoma cell lines and primary lipomas, it appeared that LPP is frequently rearranged also in cases without a cytogenetically detectable involvement of 3q27-q28.
Mutant fibroblasts contain multiple, functional centrosomes, which lead to unequal chromosome segregation, abnormal nuclear division, and aneuploidy.
The non-deficient polymorphic variant G6PD A contains only the mutation 126 Asn-->Asp.
The patient's parents were remotely related.
We evaluated the hypothesis that Huntington disease (HD) is influenced by the normal HD allele by comparing transmission patterns of genetically linked markers at the D4S10 locus in the normal parent against age at onset in the affected offspring.
The third is a previously reported mutation (G-->A transition at nt 1444) Nakano et al., 1988.
MAGEL2 is expressed predominantly in brain, the primary tissue affected in PWS and in several fetal tissues as shown by northern blot analysis.
The SCA3 locus remains within the 29-cM region on 14q24.3-q32.2 containing the gene for the Machado-Joseph disease, which is clinically related to the phenotype determined by SCA3, but it cannot yet be concluded that both diseases result from alterations of the same gene..
The forkhead transcription factor genes Foxc1 (formerly Mf1 ) and Foxc2 (formerly Mfh1 ) are expressed in the mesenchyme from which the ocular drainage structures derive.
An increase in copper concentration was also observed in the kidney, brain, placenta and lactating mammary glands of homo-zygous mutants, although milk from the mutant glands was copper deficient.
The data support the hypothesis that G6PD deficiency may confer a selective advantage in a malarious area; the female heterozygote may be at a particular advantage because resistance to malaria equals that of male hemizygotes, but the risk of fatal hemolysis may be less.
The mutations most frequently cited are Q188R, K285N, S135L, and N314D.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is caused by a CTG expansion in the 3' untranslated region of the DM gene.
The authors report a mutation in exon 5 of GCH1 in a patient with adult-onset oromandibular dystonia and no obvious family history of dystonia.
Analbuminemia was fortuitously detected in a nonedematous 12-year-old American Indian girl with atopic dermatitis, mild bronchial asthma, a mild seizure disorder, and hyperlipoproteinemia with a corneal arcus.
Only 7 percent of women from families with a history of breast cancer but not ovarian cancer had BRCA1 mutations.
Morphological abnormalities resembling cirrhosis developed in the majority of the livers from homozygous mutants older than 7 months of age.
The gene mutated in ataxia-telangiectasia (AT) patients, denoted ATM, encodes a putative protein or lipid kinase.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is the most common form of autosomal recessive ataxia.
Consistent with the tissue specificity of expression, complete sequencing and analysis of upstream regulatory regions of MEFV revealed homology to myeloid-specific promoters and to more broadly expressed inflammatory promoter elements.
Germline mutation in APC at 5q21-22 results in the dominantly inherited syndrome adenomatous polyposis coli APC.
Two of these four rearrangements were complex, involving deletion and insertion of nucleotides.
We have found that chemical inhibitors of metalloproteases potentiate netrin-mediated axon outgrowth in vitro.
Among approximately 200 anonymous Ashkenazi Jewish DNA samples, the MEFV carrier frequency was 21%, with E148Q the most common mutation.
This mutation is identical to the disease-causing mutation in patients with hereditary hemochromatosis.
Mutations in a gene coding for an ATP-binding protein were detected in idiopathic torsion dystonia (DYT1), and the GTP cyclohydrolase 1 gene is mutated in dopa-responsive dystonia DYT5.
CONCLUSIONS: There are no obvious correlations between the phenotypes of patients with ALD and their genotypes, suggesting that other genetic or environmental factors modify the phenotypic expressions of ALD..
These findings are interpreted as suggesting some degree of clinical and genetic heterogeneity in ankylosing spondylitis with genes for psoriasis and inflammatory bowel disease being important in some individuals, particularly those who are B27 negative.
The second mutation introduces a missense mutation (C282Y) into the Hfe locus, but otherwise leaves the gene intact.
Golden retriever muscular dystrophy (GRMD) is a spontaneous, X-linked, progressively fatal disease of dogs and is also a homologue of Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
The classical form of Coats' disease is almost invariably isolated, unilateral and seen in males.
Co-amplification of 11 exons from genomic DNA of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy (DMD/BMD) patients with no deletion or duplication was performed and the samples subjected to multiple SSCP analysis.
We hypothesize that this residual level of anion transport is sufficient to eliminate or postpone the onset of goiter in individuals with DFNB4.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative effects of genetic and environmental factors in susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis AS.
These results suggest that a correction of the biochemical defect in X-ALD could be possible by drug-induced overexpression or ectopic expression of ALDRP..
This mutation is at a CpG site in a Japanese infant with Tay-Sachs disease and was described elsewhere.
We studied the molecular basis of C9 deficiency in four Japanese C9-deficient patients who had suffered from meningococcal meningitis.
Identification of the molecular defect underlying FNDI in affected families is a powerful tool for early asymptomatic diagnosis in infants..
We extensively analyzed genomic DNA and messenger RNA (mRNA) from 62 unrelated Korean patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) for identification of germline adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene mutations.
We have characterised a novel missense mutation, G5260A, in exon 32 in a family segregating for EA-2.
Preassociated Fas complexes were found in living cells by means of fluorescence resonance energy transfer between variants of green fluorescent protein.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Retrospective cohort study of a consecutive series of 933 ovarian cancers diagnosed and treated at our institution, which is a comprehensive cancer center as designated by the National Cancer Institute, over a 12-year period December 1986 to August 1998.
Among the new mutations, two nonsense mutations (R317X and E558X) and three other frameshift mutations caused premature termination of the protein.
Therefore, the isolation of new genes in this region remains crucial for a better understanding of the molecular basis of PWS.
This disorder may account for up to 10% of cases of hereditary deafness.
We have undertaken a hospital-based study, to identify possible BRCA1 and BRCA2 founder mutations in the Polish population.
These abnormalities include small or absent Schlemm's canal, aberrantly developed trabecular meshwork, iris hypoplasia, severely eccentric pupils and displaced Schwalbe's line.
We recently mapped the gene for ataxia-telangiectasia group A (ATA) to chromosome 11q22-23 by linkage analysis, using the genetic markers THY1 and pYNB3.12 D11S144.
In several instances, family studies provided molecular evidence for pseudodominant transmission and incomplete penetrance of the disease phenotype.
We have analyzed ATM germline mutations in normal blood lymphocytes, using the protein-truncation test followed by genomic-sequence analysis.
We studied an unusual Palestinian family consisting of asymptomatic first cousin parents and three children affected with neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance.
The UBE3A gene encodes the E6-AP ubiquitin-protein ligase and has recently been shown to be mutated in Angelman syndrome patients who lack 15q11-q13 deletions or chromosome 15 paternal uniparental disomy.
After addition of (55)Fe to the medium, immunoprecipitates of this species contain >16 atoms of (55)Fe per molecule of mYfh1p.
These findings, and the absence of functionally relevant base changes in healthy controls, emphasize the causal role of this candidate gene in Norrie disease and pave the way for reliable diagnosis and carrier detection..
Deficiency of the ninth component of human complement (C9) is the most common complement deficiency in Japan, with an incidence of approximately one homozygote in 1000, but is very rare in other countries.
We report the spectrum of 59 ATM mutations observed in ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) patients in the British Isles.
To define the possible role of the VHL gene in the development of sporadic renal cell carcinomas, 91 different parenchymal tumours of the kidney have been investigated for mutation of the VHL gene by single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) and/or heteroduplex (HD) techniques.
Although gastric cancer is the most common cancer in the world, genetic changes during its carcinogenesis are not well understood.
These results provide further examples of mutations in PLP that cause Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease and illustrate the value of SSCP in genetic analysis..
Here, our goal was to estimate the frequency and geographic diversity of carriers of this duplication.
We identified the alpha-cardiac actin gene (ACTC) as a novel disease gene in a pedigree suffering from familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy FHC.
Consequently, both molecules are affected by the mutations, and they may contribute differently to the occurrence of specific clinical manifestations..
Along with cleft lip/palate and lip pits, affected relatives exhibit developmental delays, suggesting that the function of a gene nearby may also be disrupted.
Four of the homozygous subjects had previously been given a diagnosis of hemochromatosis, and 12 had not.
A missense mutation has been identified in the human phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH; phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase; L-phenylalanine, tetrahydrobiopterin:oxygen oxidoreductase (4-hydroxylating), EC 1.14.16.1 gene in a Chinese patient with classic phenylketonuria PKU.
Complement C7 deficiency (C7D) is associated frequently with recurrent bacterial infections, especially meningitis caused by Neisseria meningitidis.
In this study three mutations (a missense mutation Pro183Thr and two in-frame deletions removing residues 95-99 and 236-241, respectively) were unusual in being associated with expression of mutant protein.
In this report, 17 WASP gene mutations were identified, 12 of which are novel.
We previously reported evidence of linkage to the 1q24-25 region (HPC1) in 91 North American and Swedish families each with multiple cases of prostate cancer Smith et al. 1996.
Samples of RNA were subjected to reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) and the product of the proband was amplified with nested primers and sequenced.
We have examined 26 Canadian families with hereditary breast or ovarian cancer for linkage to markers flanking the BRCA1 gene on chromosome 17q12-q21.
We have observed over 25 different mutations in the diastrophic dysplasia sulphate transporter gene (DTDST) in association with the recessive disorders achondrogenesis 1B, atelosteogenesis 2, and diastrophic dysplasia.
The rare form of the Q356R polymorphism was significantly ( P = 0.03) associated with a family history of ovarian cancer, suggesting that this polymorphism may influence ovarian cancer risk.
Familial expansile osteolysis (FEO, MIM 174810) is a rare, autosomal dominant bone disorder characterized by focal areas of increased bone remodelling.
The PAX6 gene was isolated as a candidate aniridia gene by positional cloning from the smallest region of overlap of aniridia-associated deletions.
Alkaptonuria (aku), an inborn error of metabolism caused by the loss of homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase (HGD), has been described in a mouse model created by ethylnitrosourea mutagenesis but the mutation in these mice has not previously been identified.
A total of 24 individuals, including seven propositi, was investigated.
Their parents originated from Calabria, from Sardinia and from Sicily.
The identification of three separate families in which PLP is duplicated at a noncontiguous site suggests that such duplications could be a relatively common but previously undetected cause of genetic disorders..
Type 1 Gaucher disease (GD), a non-neuronopathic lysosomal storage disorder, results from the deficient activity of acid beta-glucosidase GBA.
The sodium channel beta1 subunit gene (SCN1B) maps to this candidate region and has been shown to be involved in one Australian pedigree with generalized epilepsy and febrile seizures plus" GEFS +. "
Whether the reported differences reflect true differences and/or methodological problems is discussed.
Aniridia in man and Small eye in mice are semidominant developmental disorders caused by mutations within the paired box gene PAX6.
This is an example of an exonic mutation which affects exon-splicing..
C5 levels of other family members were either normal or approximately half-normal, consistent with autosomal codominant inheritance of the gene determining C5 deficiency.
Diagnostic DNA analyses should include a comprehensive examination of the whole relevant gene in the patient and confirmation of carrier status in both parents..
Of particular concern are female members of kindreds segregating X-ALD mutations, because normal VLCFA levels do not guarantee lack of carrier status.
In order to investigate whether retained tendon reflexes are characteristic of FRDA caused by the second locus, FRDA2, we studied an unrelated FRDA patient with retained tendon reflexes.
Current evidence suggests that aniridia (absence of iris) is caused by loss of function of one copy of the PAX6 gene, which maps to 11p13.
Genomic sequencing of a BAC clone H_RG364P16 revealed the presence of another, highly homologous gene 3' of the CLD gene, with a similar genomic structure, recently identified as the Pendred syndrome gene PDS ..
Inactivation of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene product initiates colorectal tumorigenesis.
This disease gene was previously linked to the DXS7 (L1.28) locus and the MAO genes in band Xp11.3.
Although this patient did not have a detectable deletion within PAX6, her aniridia may have resulted from a disruption of the distal chromatin domain containing either enhancers or regulators for PAX6.
We present the further characterisation of two aniridia pedigrees in which the disease segregates with chromosomal rearrangements which involve 11p13 but do not disrupt the PAX6 gene.
These results suggest a molecular explanation for the genotype-phenotype correlation in FAP patients and support the idea that colorectal tumor growth might be, in part, driven by selection for a mutation in the mutation cluster region..
Thirty-seven mutations were private, and 12 mutations were seen in two or more probands of European or Middle Eastern descent.
This suggests that unlike cases of breast and ovarian cancers, mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 do not significantly predispose men to prostate cancer..
This mutation would lead to an amino acid substitution of Asp for Gly at the amino acid position 140 located within the putative 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP) binding region.
In humans, the gene for C3 deficiency is a null gene that is allelic to the structural gene for C3 and is not linked to the major histocompatibility locus.
Our data show that a mutant DMPK 3'-UTR, with as few as 57 CTGs, had a negative cis effect on protein expression and resulted in the aggregation of reporter transcripts into discrete nuclear foci.
Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) and Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS) are recessive genetic disorders with susceptibility to cancer and similar cellular phenotypes.
Skeletal changes consistent with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia, with the peculiar finding of a double layered patella, were recognised during childhood.
Emerin is a nuclear membrane protein which is missing or defective in Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy EDMD.
This study establishes that the Leu359 mutation is responsible for the phenytoin and glipizide/tolbutamide poor metabolizer phenotype..
As expected, null mutations were found in patients 2 and 3: patient 2 is homozygous for a frameshift mutation, del 4 bp at 798-801, and patient 3 is homozygous for a nonsense mutation 65C>A S22X.
The dark-adapted electroretinogram (ERG) of patients with Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy (DMD/BMD) shows a marked reduction in b-wave amplitude.
Targeted mutagenesis was used to produce two mutations in the murine hemochromatosis gene (Hfe) locus.
Analysis of stable Chinese hamster ovary transfectants expressing allele-specific recombinant forms of GPIa showed that anti-Sit(a) exclusively reacted with the Glu 505 Met(799), but not with the Glu 505 Thr(799) and the Lys 505 Thr(799) isoforms.
Using DNA of a patient with piebaldism, mental retardation, and multiple congenital anomalies associated with a 46,XY,del(4) (q12q21.1) karyotype, we carried out quantitative Southern blot hybridization analyses of the KIT gene and the adjacent PDGFRA (platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha subunit) genes.
To do this, a collaborative screening study was set up that involved 39 institutions from 19 countries and included 3,580 unrelated individuals with a family history of the disease and 934 early-onset breast and/or ovarian cancer cases.
Further, Atm- and Bax-dependent apoptosis in the CNS also required caspase-3 activation.
Direct evidence that mutation of the KHK structural gene is the cause of essential fructosuria was also obtained.
Furthermore, we have devised a semi-quantitative PCR to estimate the number of GLDC alleles by using psiGLDC as an internal control and have confirmed the homozygosity and heterozygosity of the deletion in the patient and his parents, respectively.
HLA-D typing showed that 5 members typed with homozygous Dw2 typing cells from an individual with C2 deficiency but not with Dw2 typing cells from 2 individuals with normal C2.
These results provide genetic evidence for distinct functional roles of the WT1 isoforms in urogenital development..
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is associated with a (CTG)n trinucleotide repeat expansion in the 3'-untranslated region of a protein kinase-encoding gene, DMPK, which maps to chromosome 19q13.3.
To investigate the nature of somatic von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) mutations, we analyzed 173 primary sporadic human renal cell carcinomas for mutations of the VHL tumor suppressor gene, using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis (SSCP) of DNA.
Here we demonstrate that ataxin-3, the disease protein in SCA3/MJD, adopts a unique conformation when expressed within the nucleus of transfected cells.
Examination of the entire coding region of the APC gene, based on a ribonuclease protection assay coupled with the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), disclosed mutations that were considered to cause significant defects in the APC product in 97 of 150 unrelated FAP patients.
This disease-causing mutation is a single basepair change (G to A) in the splice-acceptor region of APC intron 3 that creates a mutant RNA without exon 4 of APC.
This observation has direct implications for genetic counseling of Lowe syndrome families..
Mutations located at the extreme 5' end of the APC gene, however, are associated with a less severe disease known as attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli AAPC.
BRCA1 allelic patterns were determined for four of these individuals and for 12 additional non-Ashkenazi 185delAG mutation carriers who had breast/ovarian cancer.
Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is characterized by a markedly increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation, increased incidence of cancer, and neurodegeneration, especially of the cerebellar Purkinje cells.
Nine different germ-line mutations in the BRCA1 breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene were identified in 15 of 47 kindreds from southern Sweden, by use of SSCP and heteroduplex analysis of all exons and flanking intron region and by a protein-truncation test for exon 11, followed by direct sequencing.
The EWS gene, which maps to band q12 of human chromosome 22, is involved in a wide variety of human solid tumors including Ewing sarcoma, related primitive neuroectodermal tumors, malignant melanoma of soft parts and desmoplastic small round cell tumors.
These results further demonstrate that the WT1 gene is important in both the development of the kidney and the genito-urinary system..
CD34 hematopoietic stem-cell cultures induced toward the granulocytic lineage expressed MEFV at the myelocyte stage, concurrently with lineage commitment.
Cytoplasmic vacuolisation was evident in four.
A single ancestral couple from France was found to be common to most of the carriers of the exon 11 insertion.
Sequencing of amplified cDNA fragments revealed a single alteration, guanine to adenine at nt 749 creating a G250D mutation.
The spectrum of PAX6 mutations in aniridia patients is highly biased, with 92% of all reported mutations leading to premature truncation of the protein (nonsense, splicing, insertions and deletions) and just 2% leading to substitution of one amino acid by another missense.
Galactosemia is an autosomal recessive disorder of human galactose metabolism caused by deficiency of the enzyme galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase GALT.
Prostate cancer clusters in some families, and an estimated 5%-10% of all cases are estimated to result from inheritance of prostate cancer-susceptibility genes.
Autosomal dominant myotonia congenita is an inherited disorder of skeletal muscle caused by mutations in a voltage-gated Cl- channel gene CLCN1, 7q35.
The functional mechanism of frataxin, however, is still unknown.
ATM mutations are found along the entire gene, with no evidence of a mutational hot spot.
Ninety-four Chinese males with G6PD deficiency were studied.
Because of the variable expression of nm23-H1 in different tumors, we have investigated the relationship between amounts of the protein and cell proliferation.
Mutants found in the mild phenotype had a considerable residual activity 1.3-13.3% of wild-type GALNS activity.
The BRCA1 gene is in large part responsible for hereditary human breast and ovarian cancer.
Treatments by oral administration of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) alone, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG) CoA reductase inhibitor (pravastatin) alone, and combination of the two drugs were attempted for 7 patients with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis CTX.
Two pregnancies at risk for Wolman disease were monitored by assay and electrophoresis of acid lipase in cultured amniotic-fluid cells.
The set of 32 families in which no BRCA1 alterations were detected included 1 breast-ovarian cancer kindred manifesting clear linkage to the BRCA1 region and loss of the wild-type chromosome in associated tumors.
Among 503 subjects, 43 showed an enzyme deficiency; in 39 the defect was of the Mediterranean type.
Binding of Cdc42 to the GTPase-binding domain causes a dramatic conformational change, resulting in disruption of the hydrophobic core and release of the C terminus, enabling its interaction with the actin regulatory machinery.
Fabry disease (FD) (angiokeratoma corporis diffusum) is an X-linked inborn error of glycosphingolipid metabolism caused by defects in the lysosomal alpha-galactosidase A gene GLA.
Missense mutations in human HPRT deficient patients thus far reported tend to accumulate in this functionally active region.
Predictions about allelic homogeneity in Finland and mutation rates in simple sequence repeats are confirmed by independent observations..
Together with a recently identified allele responsible for Hex A pseudodeficiency Triggs-Raine et al.
We have mapped BFIC to chromosome 19q in five Italian pedigrees.
We hypothesized that there is at least one mild mutation linked to haplotype 12 in the Swedish PKU/HPA population, since 7 of 8 patients carrying haplotype 12 had mild HPA.
The results of these studies are consistent with a significant bottleneck occurring in the AJ population during the first millennium, when the population became established in Europe..
Genes Chromosomes Cancer 25:399-402, 1999..
This YAC has been shown to contain the entire APC gene, in addition to a significant portion of DNA flanking the 5' end of the gene, and should therefore prove a valuable resource for functional studies by transfer to colorectal tumor-derived cell lines..
The mature transcript is approximately 6 kb in length.
Mutations have now been defined for every exon of the ATM gene.
These findings as well as data obtained by others for patients with ataxia-telangiectasia suggest that structural rearrangement of 14q is the initial chromosomal change in lymphocyte clones of patients with this disorder.
All donor and acceptor sites adhere to the canonical GT-AG rule, except for the donor site of intron 21, where a variant form GC is used instead of GT.
We reported previously a family whose underlying mutation is a 500-800 kb deletion localized to chromosome bands 1q32-q41 Sander et al., 1994: Hum Mol Genet 3:576-578.
We report the isolation of an expressed sequence from this region which detects a DNA fragment that is larger in affected individuals than in normal siblings or unaffected controls.
To study the potential role of BRCA1 in sporadic carcinogenesis, we analysed the genomic DNA of tumour and normal fractions of 47 ovarian cancers for mutations in BRCA1 using the single-strand conformation polymorphism technique.
These clones provide reagents for the complete characterization of this region of the genome and for the eventual isolation of the HD gene..
The proband is homozygous for this allele.
Type II complement protein C2 deficiency is characterized by a selective block in C2 secretion.
We used heteroduplex analysis to identify sequence anomalies in five individuals with Kniest dysplasia.
By northern blot analysis we did not detect any expression of MAGEL2 / Magel2 but by RT-PCR analysis, specific expression was detected in fetal and adult brain and in placenta.
Chromosomal locations of the Atm ataxia-telangiectasia AT -mutated and Acat1 (mitochondrial acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase) genes in mouse, rat, and Syrian hamster were determined by direct R-banding FISH.
We show that hypomorphic mutations in hMRE11, but not in ATM, are present in certain individuals with an ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder ATLD.
The common mutation at codon 95 in exon 4 might be responsible for most Japanese C9 deficiency..
Analysis of nine obligate carriers from seven unrelated families showed that four harbor the delta F304/305 mutation, two the Arg170----Gln mutation, and one the Tyr180----Stop mutation.
Although some interesting cases were noted, consideration of the small sample size and frequency of each mutation indicated no clear-cut correlations between any of the observed mutations and disease severity.
In all, 12 of 16 kindreds manifesting BRCA1 mutation or linkage contained ovarian cancer, as compared with only 6 of the remaining 31 families P<.001.
Both the occurrence of CL/P and CP within the same genealogy and a recurrence risk <40% for CP among descendants with VWS have suggested that the development of clefts in this syndrome is influenced by modifying genes at other loci.
We hypothesize that large expansions also occur in the female germline and that a negative selection of oocytes with long repeats might explain the different instability behavior of the male and the female germlines..
The data were also analyzed for genotype-phenotype relationships.
We describe the outcome of a 5-year-old girl with VLCAD deficiency who was first seen at 5 months of age with severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, hepatomegaly, encephalopathy, and hypotonia.
We have identified two residues of NBS1, Ser 278 and Ser 343 that are phosphorylated in vitro by ATM and whose modification in vivo is essential for the cellular response to DNA damage.
In addition, evidence for locus heterogeneity has been provided by the identification of other putative hereditary prostate cancer loci on Xq27-28, 1q42-43, and 1p36.
To our knowledge this is the first report of heterozygous C2 deficiency in association with this combination of 'autoimmune' disorders, and we discuss the aetiological implications..
This is therefore a rare case of an inherited WAGR deletion.
The BRCA1 region is also subject to allelic loss in sporadic breast and ovarian cancers, an indication that BRCA1 mutations may occur somatically in these tumors.
Direct sequencing of the emerin gene in 22 families with Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EMD) revealed mutations in 21 (95%), confirming that emerin mutations can be identified in the majority of families with X-linked EMD.
Approximately 0.5%-1% of the general population has been estimated to be heterozygous for a germline mutation in the ATM gene.
Subjects with homozygous CETP deficiency caused by a gene splicing defect have markedly elevated HDL; however, heterozygotes have only mild increases in HDL.
At that time precocious puberty was evident.
We analysed 50 probands with a family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer for germline mutations in the coding region of the BRCA1 candidate gene, using single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis on PCR-amplified genomic DNA.
APC is often cited as a prime example of a tumor suppressor gene.
In the present study, seven mutations in the PDS gene (PDS), the gene responsible for Pendred syndrome, have been found in families of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss with EVA.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked recessive immunodeficiency characterized by thrombocytopenia, eczema, and recurrent infections, and caused by mutations in the WAS protein (WASP) gene.
Following the birth of two infants with Tay-Sachs disease (TSD), a non-Jewish, Pennsylvania Dutch kindred was screened for TSD carriers using the biochemical assay.
Patients with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa often show decreased expression of type XVII collagen, a transmembrane hemidesmosomal protein encoded by COL17A1.
This enrichment of S65C among HH chromosomes suggests that the S65C substitution is associated with the mild form of hemochromatosis..
When both mutations were introduced together, there was a roughly additive effect on specific activity, but a much more drastic effect on enzyme yield 4% of normal.
A domain of exclusive paternal expression surrounding the imprinting center suggests strong regional control of the imprinting process.
We provide data supporting the central utility of this animal model as a tool to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of one of the most common kind of human benign tumors..
We show that BRCA1 can directly interact with the BRG1 subunit of the SWI/SNF complex.
Therefore, to study the effects of the DM mutation in a controlled environment, we have established a cell culture model system using C2C12 mouse myoblasts.
The other 2% are point mutations.
Molecular analysis may be of particular value in such atypical cases..
No evidence of genetic heterogeneity was observed in these families.
This evidence was not observed by a nonparametric approach, presumably because of the extensive heterogeneity.
CONCLUSIONS: The discovery of new point mutations in this study increases the available information regarding the spectrum of genetic abnormalities and clinical manifestations of XLRS.
We recommended liver biopsy for subjects with serum ferritin levels of 300 ng per milliliter or higher.
Thus, transcripts with expanded CUG repeats are sufficient to generate a DM phenotype.
The probability that a mutation will cause disease tends to be higher when the missense mutation is within a functionally important sequence..
The hSNF5/INI1 gene which encodes a member of the SWI/SNF chromatin ATP-dependent remodeling complex, is a new tumor suppressor gene localized on chromosome 22q11.2 and recently shown to be mutated in malignant rhabdoid tumors.
The salient exceptions were spleen, thymus, and red blood cells, which had almost equal numbers of cells expressing the wild-type or the recombined allele, implying that GPI-linked proteins are not essential for the derivation of these tissues.
We have utilized backcross analysis in mice to verify and define more precisely the location of the Pdeb locus 6.1 +/- 2.3 cM distal of Mgsa on mouse chromosome 5.
To avoid selection bias, we confined analysis of total and free protein S levels and thrombotic risk to the patients' relatives.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a common and highly familial rheumatic disorder.
In the pediatric solid tumor alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, a consistent t 2;13 (q35;q14) or variant t 1;13 (p36;q14) translocation generates PAX3-FKHR or PAX7-FKHR fusion proteins, respectively.
Seventy families with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) known to the Institute of Child Health fall into three categories with respect to potential linkage analysis with the X chromosome DNA markers RC8 and L1.28 that bridge the DMD gene.
Here, we tested the hypothesis that HFE-/- mice have increased duodenal expression of the divalent metal transporter DMT1.
Moreover, in patients without clear signs of inflammatory damage, this treatment does not modify significantly the natural course of the disease.
Mutations that alter splice sites led to the synthesis of several types of mRNAs, a fraction of which represented the normally spliced product.
We report on 4 sibs (2F, 2M) with Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
In granulocytes, MEFV was up-regulated by IFN-gamma and the combination of IFN-alpha and colchicine.
Thus, abnormalities in extracellular matrix synthesis or organization may contribute to development of the ocular phenotypes.
Further analysis shows that this result can be explained by segregation distortion in favor of the normal allele in one donor only and that it does not provide evidence of a significant segregation distortion in the other donors.
The overall severity score indicated a mild disease, P < 0.001.
Huntington disease (HD) has been shown to be associated with an expanded CAG repeat within a novel gene on 4p16.3 IT15.
The only instance of disassociation of B27 and spondylitis in a family was where the proband had ulcerative colitis as well as spondylitis.
Fourth, the disease phenotype is significantly more severe and had an early age of onset (16 years) in a subject homozygous for the expanded allele, which contrasts with Huntington disease and suggests that the expanded allele in the MJD1 gene could exert its effect either by a dominant negative effect (putatively excluded in HD) or by a gain of function effect as proposed for HD.
In this group of relatives, a low free protein S level was the most reliable predictor of a PROS1 gene defect sensitivity 97.7%, specificity 100%.
Of the 17 point mutations so far described, three appear to be more common.
The frequency, origin, and phenotypic expression of a germline MSH2 gene mutation previously identified in seven kindreds with hereditary non-polyposis cancer syndrome (HNPCC) was investigated.
Genet., 4: 2233-2237, 1995;
Since BRCA1, the first major gene responsible for inherited breast cancer, was cloned, more than 50 unique mutations have been detected in the germline of individuals with breast and ovarian cancer.
The frequency distribution of common polymorphisms was determined in the 91 Caucasian cancer cases in this series and 24 sister controls using allele-specific amplification.
Male genital defects also were evident and there was a single case of Wilms tumor in which the transcript of the nontargeted allele showed an exon 9 skipping event, implying a causal link between Wt1 dysfunction and Wilms tumorigenesis in mice.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is a recessive disorder characterized by episodes of fever with serositis or synovitis.
We have developed a rapid and simple method to diagnose the molecular defects of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency in Chinese in Taiwan.
The grandmother of the cousins is deceased and not available for study, and their grandfather is not deleted for SNRPN.
The last patient carried a constitutional deletion of the 11p13 region and no additional mutation was found.
This fact encourages the hypothesis that the described kindred segregates for a variant of Cohen syndrome and suggests a redefinition of its phenotype..
The cousins' fathers and two paternal aunts have the same deletion and are clinically normal.
Despite the early recognition of this disorder, the primary structure of human KHK and the molecular basis of essential fructosuria have not been previously defined.
In this study we investigated 45 German breast/ovarian cancer families for germline mutations in the BRCA1 gene.
The frequency of G6PD deficiency, ranging from 7.2% on the Ionian Coast to zero on the eastern side of the Lucanian Apennines, appears to be inversely related to the distance of each town examined from the Ionian Coast, suggesting that this geographic distribution may reflect, at least in part, gene flow from Greek settlers.
Alkaptonuria (AKU), the prototypic inborn error of metabolism, has recently been shown to be caused by loss of function mutations in the homogentisate-1,2-dioxygenase gene HGO.
We suggest that PLP has a vital function in glial cell development, distinct from its later role in myelin assembly, and that this dichotomy of action may explain the clinical spectrum of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease..
Most likely, deletion and translation arose simultaneously from a complex rearrangement event that involves three chromosomal breakpoints.
Among the probands, significantly elevated rates of chromosome damage were observed in both blood and skin.
The orthologous mouse gene (Magel2) is located within 150 kb of NDN:, is imprinted with paternal-only expression and is expressed predominantly in late developmental stages and adult brain as shown by northern blotting, RT-PCR and whole-mount RNA in situ hybridization.
BFIC and GEFS+ have clinical features in common, therefore SCN1B is a candidate gene for BFIC.
The overall rate of G6PD deficiency was 2.6%.
We then tested six phenotypically normal offspring from four of these VHL families: two were found to carry the deletion and the other four were deletion-free.
Epidemiologic studies have shown an increased frequency of this tumor type in families affected by adenomatous polyposis coli.
Heterozygote detection was performed with an allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) system designed to detect exclusively only one of the normal and mutant alleles, followed by confirmation with PCR/single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and direct sequencing.
However, only half of those who were homozygous had clinical features of hemochromatosis, and one quarter had serum ferritin levels that remained normal over a four-year period..
Herein, we present 35 new mutations and 34 new intragenic polymorphisms or rare variants within the ATM gene.
Classical phenylketonuria is an autosomal recessive disease caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
BACKGROUND: Families with a high incidence of hereditary breast cancer, and subsequently shown to have terminating mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2, appear to have a higher incidence of prostate cancer among male relatives.
The predicted rodent proteins have several important domains and signals found in human pyrin, including a B-box zinc finger domain, Robbins-Dingwall nuclear localization signal, and coiled-coil domain.
In vitro stimulation of monocytes with the proinflammatory agents interferon (IFN) gamma, tumor necrosis factor, and lipopolysaccharide induced MEFV expression, whereas the antiinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL) 4, IL-10, and transforming growth factor beta inhibited such expression.
Van der Woude syndrome (VWS) is an autosomal dominant craniofacial disorder with high penetrance and variable expression.
It is therefore proposed that the defective surface expression of CTLA-4 by CHS T cells is involved in the generation of lymphoproliferative disease.
Sporadic cerebellar haemangioblastoma and some renal cell carcinoma may arise from somatic mutations inactivating both alleles at the VHL locus..
This allowed the detection of some residual activity (12% of the positive control) when the mutant alpha-cDNA replaced its wild-type counterpart.
However, since this original report on identification of a mutated FGD1 gene in an AAS patient, no additional mutations in the FGD1 gene have been described.
Rearrangement of the BCL1 (B-cell lymphoma 1) region on chromosome 11q13 appears to be highly characteristic of centrocytic lymphoma and also is found infrequently in other B-cell neoplasms.
This screening approach led to the confirmation of a small heterozygous deletion in a polyposis patient that overlaps one of the two isolated YACs.
Mutations in the SMAD4/DPC4 tumor suppressor gene, a key signal transducer in most TGFbeta-related pathways, are involved in 50% of pancreatic cancers.
Mutations of the BRCA1 gone in humans are associated with predisposition to breast and ovarian cancers.
The seventh component of complement (C7) was not detected by functional or immunochemical assays, whereas other components were normal by hemolytic and immunochemical assessment.
A total of 63 families with Huntington disease (HD) were examined for linkage between HD and G8 D4S10.
The disease genes have been identified in two autosomal dominant forms and in one X-linked recessive form.
These data suggest an autosomal codominant mode of inheritance of C5 deficiency.
Intriguingly enough, the identified gene region overlaps the refined gene region for Cohen syndrome (COH1) Kolehmainen et al., 1997: Euro J Hum Genet 5:206-213.
Partial HPRT deficiencies are associated with gouty arthritis, while absence of activity results in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome L-N.
Mentally retarded female patients with a full mutation showed FMRP expression in only some of their hair roots (<55%), and no overlap with normal female controls was observed.
N314D does not impair GALT activity in in vitro expression systems.
Our results demonstrate that pendrin functions as a transporter of chloride and iodide, but not sulfate, and may provide insight into thyroid physiology and the pathophysiology of Pendred syndrome..
We also examined 29 human tumor cell lines consisting of 12 esophageal cancers, 7 glioma/glioblastomas and 10 others for Mxi1 mutations in exons 1, 2, 4 (HLH domain), 5 and 6.
Our results show that FRDA is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial disorder affecting oxidative phosphorylation and give a rationale for treatments aimed to improve mitochondrial function in this condition..
In one family there was evidence of non-penetrance and susceptibility to both gastric and colorectal cancer; thus, in addition to six cases of gastric cancer, a CDH1 mutation carrier developed colorectal cancer at age 30 years.
It appears to be a typical folate sensitive fragile site.
To date, several mutations in the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene, DMD , have been identified in patients with XLDCM, but a pathogenic correlation of these cardiospecific mutations in DMD with the XLDCM phenotype has remained to be elucidated.
We were able to examine 66 Finnish AGU patients for changes in the oral mucosa and 44 of these for changes in facial skin.
Age at onset was later for first symptoms and for development of ankle contractures and muscle weakness.
The additional effects of nonallelic variation and other constitutional factors on phenotypic variability remain to be elucidated..
Furthermore, APC enhanced the GEF activity of Asef and stimulated Asef-mediated cell flattening, membrane ruffling, and lamellipodia formation in MDCK cells.
To investigate a possible physiological role for emerin, we examined the ultrastructural localization of the protein in human skeletal muscle and HeLa cells, using ultrathin cryosections.
(Genomics 11:124-134, 1991), is a common disease allele in non-Jewish Caucasians 10/58 alleles examined.
Haplotype analysis was undertaken on the four families who have been described with this mutation.
It is predicted to cause a very premature translational termination accounting for the severe phenotype observed.
Mutations in the gene ATM are responsible for the genetic disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), which is characterized by cerebellar dysfunction, radiosensitivity, chromosomal instability and cancer predisposition.
These findings further support the association of C3 deficiency with immune-complex disease and suggest that plasma infusion may be an adjunct to antibiotic therapy in the management of severe pyogenic infections in patients with C3 deficiency..
For a person of either sex with HL-A W27, there appears to be about a 20 per cent chance that ankylosing spondylitis will develop, suggesting a prevalence of 10 to 15 per thousand.
The mutation of intron 9 inducing defective alternative splicing was reported to be responsible for this syndrome.
We investigated the metabolism of the HDL apolipoproteins (apo) apoA-I and apoA-II in a total of five patients with LCAT deficiency, one with classic LCAT deficiency and four with Fish-eye disease.
A panel of eight unrelated subjects with inherited type I protein S deficiency was screened for mutations in the PROS1 gene.
By routine screening of sera, a subject was discovered who showed a sub-total deficiency of C6 and C7.
The frequency and genetic basis of G6PD deficiency have been studied in Africa, around the Mediterranean, and in the Far East, but little such information is available about the situation in India.
We have previously reported two BRCA1 founder mutations in the Norwegian population.
The pattern of retention of subclones in the deletion patient place the end point of the deletion within 30-130 kb of the proximal end of the YAC.
The mouse displayed reduced anxiety-related responses with increased exploratory behavior.
Twenty-eight index patients with protein S deficiency and a PROS1 gene defect were studied, together with 109 first-degree relatives.
Furthermore, the identification of this germline mutation strengthens the correlation between the 5' location of an APC disease-causing mutation and the attenuated polyposis phenotype..
The protein product of the gene responsible for A-T, designated ATM, is a member of a family of kinases characterized by a carboxy-terminal phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-like domain.
Results of DNA analysis with the probe M27 beta are consistent with X linkage and indicate also that the locus of the relevant gene lies close to or is identical to the locus of the gene for the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome WAS.
Furthermore, compared with noncarriers, APC I1307K carriers had increased numbers of adenomas and colorectal cancers per patient (P=.03), as well as a younger age at diagnosis.
The fourth rearrangement grossly altered the sequence within intron 14.
Several BRCA1 mutations have now been found to occur in geographically diverse breast and ovarian cancer families.
Herein we describe haplotype and mutational analyses of HGO in seven new AKU pedigrees.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a complex neurogenetic disorder.
PATIENTS: The study was restricted to patients of Jewish origin because of the ease of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genotyping in this ethnic group.
In particular, R778L is known to be more prevalent in Asian countries than in other countries of the world.
We performed mutation analysis of individual exons of the PDS gene in one Spanish family that shows intrafamilial variability of the deafness phenotype two patients with profound and one with moderate-severe deafness.
Twenty individuals were heterozygous for the Arg95Stop mutation.
Novel mutations were found in two of these families.
To study the molecular genetics of classical and Duarte galactosemia, we analyzed the GALT mutations in 30 families with classical galactosemia, in 10 families with the D-2 variant and in 3 individuals carrying the D-1 allele by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis DGGE.
The FHF2 gene localisation and tissue-specific expression pattern suggest it to be a candidate gene for familial cases of the BFLS syndrome and other syndromal and non-specific forms of X-linked mental retardation mapping to the region..
The identification of a rearrangement that did not alter any coding exons yet affected the splicing further underscores the importance of using cDNA for mutation analysis.
The mutation causing myotonic dystrophy (DM) has been identified as a CTG expansion in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the DM protein kinase gene ( DMPK ), but the mechanism(s) of pathogenesis remain unknown.
Our results indicate that carriers of APC(AS9) develop fewer colorectal tumors than do typical patients with FAP because somatic inactivation of both APC alleles is necessary for colorectal tumorigenesis.
A new glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) variant with severe erythrocytic G6PD deficiency and a unique pH optimum is described in a young patient with chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA) and familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy FAP.
In contrast, the intron 9 mutation apparently was introduced within the last century and probably is limited to a few Louisiana families..
Necdin, a protein implicated in the terminal differentiation of neurons, is the only PWS candidate gene to reduce viability when disrupted in a mouse model.
We have therefore extended studies on their relationship through the characterisation of a 650 kb YAC isolated using L1.28 (recognising the DXS7 locus) as a probe.
RESULTS: The biochemical phenotype predicted from the genotype in functionally hemizygous patients was related significantly to the assigned phenylalanine level.
This novel sequence, cpXr318 (DXS742), detects a new submicroscopic deletion interval at the Norrie disease locus NDP.
The A322G mutant PAH had about 75% and the R408Q mutant PAH about 55% of the wild-type PAH enzyme activity.
To test the role of Six5 loss in DM, we have analysed a strain of mice in which Six5 was deleted.
A widened vestibular aqueduct was found in all patients who underwent computed tomography (CT) scan exploration of the inner ear.
In the subset of 491 such families, the peak HLOD was 2.56 (P=.0006) and alpha =.11 (1-LOD support interval.04-.19), compared with HLODs of 0 in the remaining 281 families.
It is now possible to use gene diagnostics of this unique NIS mutation to identify patients with congenital hypothyroidism due to an iodide transport defect in this family and to determine the carrier state of potential parents for genetic counseling and arranging rapid and early diagnosis of their infants..
Four of the mutations were in exon 9, all resulting in missense mutations.
We report here the identification of a 5' APC germline mutation in five separately ascertained AAPC families from Newfoundland, Canada.
Frataxin is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein that is widely conserved among eukaryotes.
The GLDC gene spans at least 135 kb and consists of 25 exons.
We studied whether the beneficial effects of growth hormone (GH) treatment on growth and body composition in PWS are accompanied by an improvement in respiratory function.
ATM, the gene mutated in the inherited human disease ataxia-telangiectasia, is a member of a family of kinases involved in DNA metabolism and cell-cycle checkpoint control.
Close linkage between HL-A and C2 deficiency was first reported by FU and co-workers in 1974.
Consequently, we propose that there are at least three different reasons for the severe phenotype: (i) destruction of the hydrophobic core or modification of the packing; (ii) removal of a salt bridge to destabilize the entire conformation; (iii) modification of the active site.
Cells from patient 1 had 5% of control levels of acid lipase, using 14C-triolein as substrate; however, when artificial substrates (esters of 4-methylumbelliferone and p-nitrophenol) were used to measure acid lipase, these cells had 30% of control levels.
Lymphocyte activities were: mother, 33--39%; father, 11--29%; brother, 82--103%; and sister, 38--48% of the lowest normal.
The locus for Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), a severe neurodegenerative disease, is tightly linked to markers D9S5 and D9S15, and analysis of rare recombination events has suggested the order cen-FRDA-D9S5-D9S15-qter.
Mutations in the STA gene at the Xq28 locus have been found in patients with X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy EDMD.
A probe for the 5' end of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene was used to study expression of the gene in normal human muscle, myogenic cell cultures, and muscle from patients with DMD.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene, leading to the absence of the dystrophin protein in striated muscle.
Isolated mYfh1p is a soluble monomer (13,783 Da) that contains no iron and shows no significant tendency to self-associate.
Amniotic-fluid cells from patient 2 showed normal levels of acid lipase with all substrates tested; the electrophoretic pattern of acid lipase was normal.
Milder phenotypes such as adrenomyeloneuropathy and Addison disease only also have been recognized.
The pathological form of ataxin-3 with an expanded polyglutamine domain also associates with the nuclear matrix.
We report four children with hepatoblastoma from four unrelated families with Gardner syndrome GS.
To further localize the VWS gene we searched for other deletions that cause VWS.
These results support the finding of a prostate cancer-susceptibility gene linked to 1q24-25, albeit in a defined subset of prostate cancer families.
It has been shown from pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) that the monoamine oxidase genes A and B (MAOA & MAOB) and DXS7 loci are physically very close.
RNA analysis from lymphocytes of the affected patients showed that mutation 639+7A-->G generates a new donor splice site, leading to an mRNA with an insertion of six nucleotides from intron 4 of PDS.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is caused by a genetic deficiency of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
Enlarged vestibular aqueduct (EVA), known as the most common form of inner ear abnormality, has recently been of particular genetic interest because this anomaly is inherited in a recessive manner.
Genotyping for APOE was performed blind to clinical information.
The observation of typical mutations in STM7/X25 (GAA expansions) in this patient demonstrates that the two genetically different forms of FRDA cannot be distinguished clinically..
This is consistent with the notion that all human mutants have residual enzyme activity and that null mutations are lethal at some stage of development.
This study was carried out to further evaluate this risk among patients with CHH and their first-degree relatives.
Mutation in the gene encoding the recently isolated WASP protein has now been identified as the genetic defect responsible for the X-linked Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), a primary immunodeficiency disease associated with extensive phenotypic variability.
These results suggest a potentially important genetic connection between fasting glycerolemia and glucose homeostasis, not only in this X-linked deficiency but, potentially, in individuals within the normal" range of plasma glycerol concentrations.. "
We have analyzed a single multi-affected breast/ovarian cancer pedigree (BOV3) and have shown consistent inheritance of markers on chromosome 17q with the disease confirming that this family is due to the BRCA1 gene.
Genetic epidemiological evidence suggests that mutations in BRCA1 may be responsible for approximately one half of early onset familial breast cancer and the majority of familial breast/ovarian cancer.
Activation relieves an autoinhibitory contact between the GTPase-binding domain and the carboxy-terminal region of WASP proteins.
Although autosomal recessive transmission of PLS is evident, a more complex" autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance with phenotypic influences from a closely linked modifying locus has been hypothesised for HMS. "
We have estimated the haplotype distribution of mutant and normal phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) alleles for 17 Turkish phenylketonuria (PKU) families: 20 normal and 27 mutated PAH alleles could be identified.
A (CTG)nexpansion in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of the DM protein kinase gene ( DMPK ) is responsible for causing myotonic dystrophy DM.
Thus, there is no evidence that the paternal RB1 allele is preferentially retained in retinoblastoma, as has been suggested to be the case in osteosarcoma.
Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by a genetic defect in N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase GALNS.
Genomic fragments were isolated which correspond to PvuII and HindIII restriction fragment length polymorphisms associated with C5 deficiency.
Mutations in BRCA1 account for approximately 45% of familial breast cancer and 90% of inherited breast/ovarian cancer, whereas mutations in BRCA2 account for a comparable percentage of inherited breast cancer cases.
CONTEXT: Most hereditary ovarian cancers are associated with germline mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2.
The mutation (A-->T at nt943+3) disrupts the 3' splice site of exon 5 leading to the deletion of this exon from MSH2 mRNA and represents the only frequent MSH2 mutation so far reported.
Huntington disease (HD) is caused by expansion of a glutamine repeat in the amino-terminal region of huntingtin.
These observations suggest that genetic searches for microdeletions should be routine in screening patients for causes of VWS and may facilitate the positional cloning efforts of the VWS gene and of a nearby gene or genes that may be involved in brain development..
Here we used field inversion gel electrophoresis (FIGE) to construct a restriction map of approximately 1,000 kb of DNA surrounding the RB1 locus and to detect the translocation breakpoints in three retinoblastoma patients.
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and hypertriglyceridemia are associated with an increased risk of diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease.
To study mechanisms underlying BRCA1-related tumorigenesis, we derived mouse embryonic fibroblast cells carrying a targeted deletion of exon 11 of the Brca1 gene.
All were confirmed by nucleotide sequencing.
Clinical manifestation of DM may be caused by the expanded CTG-repeat compromising the (alternative) expression of DM-kinase or DMR-N9 proteins..
The von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor gene (VHL) has a critical role in the pathogenesis of clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (RCC), as VHL mutations have been found in both von Hippel-Lindau disease-associated and sporadic RCCs.
We describe a fast method for detection of X-ALD mutations.
To determine whether SIX5 deficiency contributes to the myotonic dystrophy phenotype, we disrupted mouse Six5 by replacing the first exon with a beta-galactosidase reporter.
We have identified a new mutation of Norrie disease (ND) gene in two Japanese males from unrelated families; they showed typical ocular features of ND but no mental retardation or hearing impairment.
Functional analyses demonstrated that the V54D mutation slightly increased NTS binding and decreased CTS transactivation activity to almost half..
The deletion allele of a novel hexanucleotide insertion/deletion polymorphism in the F10 gene promoter region was shown by reporter gene assay, to reduce promoter activity by approximately 20%.
We analyzed the entire protein-coding sequence of this gene by reverse-transcription PCR, SSCP, and DNA sequencing in five patients with different clinical expression of X-ALD and in their female relatives; these clinical expressions were cerebral childhood ALD, adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN), and "Addison disease only" (ADO) phenotype.
The detection and mapping of the translocation breakpoints of all three retinoblastoma patients to within the putative RB1 gene substantiated the authenticity of this candidate sequence and demonstrated the utility of FIGE in detecting chromosomal rearrangements affecting this locus..
Two truncating mutations, 962del4 and 3600del11, were identified.
Hereditary progressive dystonia with marked diurnal fluctuation (HPD; dopa-responsive dystonia, DRD) have been recently found to be caused by a genetic defect in the GTP cyclohydrolase I (GCH1) gene.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an autosomal recessive human genetic disorder caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH, phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase, EC 1.14.16.1.
The current study used allotype analysis of canine C3 in order to demonstrate that the gene for C3 deficiency in these dogs is also a null gene allelic to the structural gene for C3.
Yeast knockout models, and histological and biochemical data from patient heart biopsies or autopsies indicate that the frataxin defect causes a specific iron-sulfur protein deficiency and mitochondrial iron accumulation leading to the pathological changes.
Using 3'-RACE analysis of HMGIC fusion transcripts in lipoma cell line Li-501/SV40, ectopic genetic sequences were obtained, which by CASH (chromosome assignment using somatic cell hybrids) and FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization) analysis were found to originate from chromosome segment 3q27-q28.
This finding confirms that the fragile X phenotype can exist, without amplification of the CCG repeat or cytogenetic expression of the fragile X, and that fragile X syndrome is a genetically homogeneous disorder involving FMR1.
In most patients with isolated unilateral retinoblastoma, tumor development is initiated by somatic inactivation of both alleles of the RB1 gene.
A novel procedure is presented to estimate the ratio of male to female mutation rates for Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
Canavan disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait that is caused by the deficiency of aspartoacylase ASPA.
Novel germline CDH1 mutations (a nonsense and a splice site) were detected in two families 25%.
Genet., 55: 1092-1102, 1994; Clinical Research Group for Japan, Hum.
We report a Japanese family with adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) with a three base pair deletion (delGAG 291) in the ALD gene.
Novel DNA sequences potentially associated with the breakpoints were positionally cloned from YACs within or near these regions.
A T-->A transition at the 20th nucleotide position of exon 5a results in a Val-->Asp (GTC-->GAC) substitution at the 7th codon of the alternative splice region.
A new platelet-specific alloantigen, termed Sit(a), was identified in a severe case of neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia.
In high-risk pedigrees, female carriers of BRCA1 mutations have an 80-90% lifetime risk of breast cancer, and a 40-50% risk of ovarian cancer.
In a previous study we found that a Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) causing mutation in the intron 9 donor splice site of the HEXA gene occurs at high frequency in non-Jewish patients and carriers from the British Isles.
Genomic DNA was isolated from leukocytes, and all exons of the XLRS1 gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and analyzed using a direct sequencing method.
However, the mutant WT1(tmT396) protein accounted for only 5% of WT1 in both heterozygous embryonic stem cells and the WT.
The gene for human apolipoprotein C2 (APOC2), situated on the proximal long arm of chromosome 19, is closely linked to the gene for the most common form of adult muscular dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy DM.
Although the patients studied had typical FRDA, one sibpair had the uncommon symptom of retained tendon reflexes.
Here we report identification of a mutation of cathepsin C (exon 6, 2127A--> G) that changes a highly conserved amino acid in the cathepsin C peptide.
Affected individuals exhibit neonatal hypotonia, developmental delay and childhood-onset obesity.
Complete absence of C7 was also found in one sibling who had the clinical syndrome of meningococcal meningitis and arthritis as a child and in this sibling's clinically well eight-year-old son.
Overall, it accounts for 60-70% of mutant chromosomes, but there are significant differences in its relative frequency in individual populations.
Genotype-phenotype studies of mouse models for DMD show position-specific effects of the mutations upon the phenotype: mice with 5' defects of dystrophin have normal ERGs, those with defects in the central region have a normal b-wave amplitude associated with prolonged implicit times for both the b-wave and oscillatory potentials, and mice with 3' defects have a phenotype similar to that seen in DMD/BMD patients.
These patients are considered functionally hemizygous.
In this manuscript we report the mouse and rat homologs of MEFV.
Currently there is no known treatment that alters the natural course of the disease.
Here, we provide experimental evidence for a dominant negative effect of APC gene products associated with severe polyposis.
There was a G-to-A transition in the affected cat cDNA that predicted an E351K substitution, destroyed a BssSI site, and eliminated GUSB enzymatic activity in expression studies.
Oral-contraceptive use protected against ovarian cancer both for carriers of the BRCA1 mutation (odds ratio, 0.5; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.3 to 0.9) and for carriers of the BRCA2 mutation odds ratio, 0.4; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.2 to 1.1.
We identified 24 mutations in the WFS1 gene: 8 nonsense mutations, 8 missense mutations, 3 in-frame deletions, 1 in-frame insertion, and 4 frameshift mutations.
Molecular genetic and cell biology studies have shown that PEX1 is deficient in many CG1 patients.
The rat and human ataxin-3 genes are highly homologous with an overall sequence identity of approximately 88%.
Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome (BFLS) is a syndromal X-linked mental retardation, which maps by linkage to the q26 region of the human X chromosome.
The seven deficient fibroblast lines were characterized by measuring acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenation activities, overall palmitic acid oxidation, and VLCAD protein synthesis using pulse-chase, further confirming the diagnosis of VLCAD deficiency.
HFE does not remain at the cell surface, but traffics with TfR to Tf-positive internal compartments Gross et al., 1998.
We have expressed the mature form of Yfh1p (mYfh1p) in Escherichia coli and have analyzed its function in vitro.
In preliminary screens, mutations of PTEN were detected in 31% (13/42) of glioblastoma cell lines and xenografts, 100% (4/4) of prostate cancer cell lines, 6% (4/65) of breast cancer cell lines and xenografts, and 17% (3/18) of primary glioblastomas.
An extension of the DGGE analysis to the entire coding region in a sufficient number of clinically well-characterized, unrelated patients will facilitate the establishment of genotype-phenotype correlations.
Loss of E-cadherin function has been implicated in the pathogenesis of sporadic colorectal and other cancers, and our findings provide evidence that germline CDH1 mutations predispose to early onset colorectal cancer.
The application of blood leucocytes can be a simple technique on analysing a constructive abnormality of CYP27 mRNA..
Complement component C6 deficiency (C6D) was diagnosed in a 16-year-old African-American male with meningococcal meningitis.
One of the mutations is a novel C-to-G transversion, resulting in a replacement of Tyr180 by a stop codon.
In addition, expression of ataxin-3 within the nucleus exposes the glutamine domain of the full-length non-pathological protein, allowing it to bind the monoclonal antibody 1C2.
To confirm these results, sperm typing analysis was also performed using a polymorphic marker, D14S1050, closely linked to the MJD1 gene.
Ten of the twenty eight YAC clones comprise a minimal set spanning the 2.2 Mb.
The PDS gene encodes a transmembrane protein, known as pendrin, which functions as a transporter of iodide and chloride.
The ATM gene encodes a protein kinase that is activated by ionizing radiation or radiomimetic drugs, whereas p95/nbs1 is part of a protein complex that is involved in responses to DNA double-strand breaks.
Cotransfection of normal alpha-cDNA and beta-cDNA followed by immunoprecipitation of human Hex A resulted in 20-fold increase in the ratio between positive and negative (mock transfection) control values.
We conclude that the C282Y mutation does not result in a null allele..
Individuals homozygous for the Leu359 variant (CYP2C9*3) have been shown to have significantly lower drug clearances compared with Ile359 (CYP2C9*1) homozygous individuals.
These findings suggest the possibility that C6 and C7 may function as a single genetic unit and that the primary transcript copied from the genome includes information for both proteins..
Studies at the transcript and protein level are needed for a better assessment..
All but one of the mutations were detected within the BRCA1 gene.
He showed short stature, obesity, mild developmental delay, cryptorchidism, and some mild dysmorphic features.
In family studies of three first-degree relatives with heterozygous C9 deficiency, we demonstrated that the two mutations are segregating independently.
These results also have implications for the understanding of cellular iron homeostasis in organs such as the liver, pancreas, heart, and spleen that are iron loaded in hereditary hemochromatotic individuals lacking functional HFE..
Mutation analysis showed that both APC(AS9) and the wild-type APC alleles were somatically mutated in most colorectal tumors from these patients.
Defining polymorphic sites as well as mutations in the ATM gene will be of great importance in designing automated methods for detecting mutations..
Recently, we reported five Austrian families with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa who share the same COL17A1 mutation.
We analysed 13 independent patients with clinical diagnosis of AAS.
Inherited mutations of the APC gene predispose carriers to multiple adenomatous polyps of the colon and rectum and to colorectal cancer.
Homozygosity for M1V and codominant inheritance of I65T/R408W were both associated with classical phenylketonuria..
The 2.6 A crystal structure of HFE reveals the locations of hemochromatosis mutations and a patch of histidines that could be involved in pH-dependent interactions.
We report the case of a nonsense mutation in a Duchenne patient identified by this approach.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Mutations of the peripherin/RDS gene have been reported in autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa, pattern macular dystrophy, and retinitis punctata albescens.
The risk of colorectal cancer was significantly higher (p<0.01) in males than females 0.63 v 0.30 and 0.84 v 0.44 at ages 50 and 60 years, respectively.
In ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) patients, mutations in a single gene, ATM, result in an autosomal recessive syndrome that embraces a variety of clinical features and manifests extreme radiosensitivity and a strong pre-disposition to malignancy.
This percentage of CTNNB1 mutations is greater than in all other human tumours examined thus far, and directly implicates beta-catenin/LEF misregulation as the major cause of hair matrix cell tumorigenesis in humans..
Subsequently analysis of the retinas of nine enucleated eyes from males with Coats' disease demonstrated in one a somatic mutation in the NDP gene which was not present within non-retinal tissue.
Chronic neisserial infection can be associated with C7 deficiency and must be distinguished from other causes of cutaneous vasculitis..
The authors' earlier findings of a negative electroretinogram (ERG) in a boy with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) led them to investigate dystrophin gene deletions and ERGs in five boys with DMD.
Oedemic buccal mucosa (leucoedema) and gingival overgrowths were more frequent in AGU patients than in controls p<0.001.
Therefore, deletion of the KIT and PDGFRA genes may account for the piebald phenotype in this patient..
We calculated age related risks of all, colorectal, endometrial, and ovarian cancers in nt943+3 A--T MSH2 mutation carriers (n=76) for all patients and for men and women separately.
Mutations in this gene are responsible for Pendred syndrome and autosomal recessive non-syndromic hearing loss at the DFNB4 locus on chromosome 7q31.
Although this association may be coincidental, it prompts further attention to the possibility that under certain circumstances G6PD deficiency may favor cataract formation.
Approximately 50-60 mutations have been reported in Caucasians and are reflected in a wide range of clinical severities.
Effective mutation detection in these families is therefore fundamental to unambiguously determine the genetic status of each individual at risk.
Aerobic addition of ferrous iron to mYfh1p results in assembly of regular spherical multimers with a molecular mass of approximately 1. 1 MDa (megadaltons) and a diameter of 13+/-2 nm.
To assess the risk of this common APC allelic variant in colorectal carcinogenesis, we have analyzed a large cohort of unselected Ashkenazi Jewish subjects with adenomatous polyps and.or colorectal cancer, for the APC I1307K polymorphism.
Mutations in the human homolog of Foxc1, FKHL7, cause dominant anterior segment defects and glaucoma in various families.
We also identified two new microsatellite markers for the OCRL1 locus, and we detected a germline mosaicism in one family.
A small-for-gestational-age infant, found to have analbuminemia in the neonatal period, is reported and the twelve cases recorded in the world literature are reviewed.
No deletions were detected in seven cases of popliteal pterygia syndrome, 76 cases of mixed syndromic forms of cleft lip and palate, and 178 cases of nonsyndromic cleft lip and palate.
It shows tissue-specific alternative splicing and alternative transcription starts.
We conducted detailed mutational analyses of 29 unrelated Japanese patients with ALD by genomic Southern blot analysis and direct nucleotide sequence analysis of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction products derived from total RNA that was extracted from cultured skin fibroblasts, lymphoblastoid cells, or peripheral blood leukocytes.
In sharp contrast, among the 34 duplicated cases, 91% of mothers were carriers, a value significantly (chi2=9. 20, P<.01) in favor of a male bias, with an estimation of the male/female mutation frequency (k) of 9.3.
An array of genotypes was found in these patients.
Very long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency is a life-threatening disorder of mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Of these, 23 were novel mutations, and most occurred in exon 8.
Mutations in the HEXA gene, encoding the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase A (Hex A), that abolish Hex A enzyme activity cause Tay-Sachs disease (TSD), the fatal infantile form of G(M2) gangliosidosis, Type 1.
Mutation analysis at the A-T locus may help estimate the prognosis of A-T patients..
The absence of functional C7 activity could not be accounted for on the basis of an inhibitor.
The central nervous system (CNS) of Atm-null mice shows a pronounced defect in apoptosis induced by genotoxic stress, suggesting ATM functions to eliminate neurons with excessive genomic damage.
Analysis of fetal tissues following prostaglandin termination of this pregnancy confirmed the diagnosis.
Segregation distortion has been reported to occur in a number of the trinucleotide repeat disorders.
The genetic instability observed in the tumor and cell line DNA, together with the germ-line mutation in a mismatch-repair gene, suggest that the MSH2 gene is involved in the onset and/or progression in a subset of ovarian cancer..
Surprisingly, mapping of the new deletion showed that it extended 0.2-1 Mb beyond the proximal breakpoint for the deletion described previously.
The haplotype has been found in combination with a number of other haplotypes containing defective genes that lead either to C6 or C7 deficiency, but with different consequences.
Macro-orchidism was absent in knockout mice carrying the YAC transgene indicating functional rescue by the human protein.
The largest two-point LOD score was 5.87.
Of note, the presence of different divergent haplotypes suggested the occurrence of de novo, recurrent N370S mutations.
Identification of each mutant gene provides valuable information as to the type of mutation that occurs spontaneously.
Among family members, an average age of less than 55 years at the diagnosis of breast cancer, the presence of ovarian cancer, the presence of breast and ovarian cancer in the same woman, and Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry were all associated with an increased risk of detecting a BRCA1 mutation.
These results strongly suggest that somatic mutations of the APC gene are associated with development of a great majority of colorectal tumors..
In 12 patients altered PCR fragments were detected which were studied in detail by direct sequencing.
By direct sequencing, we identified five mutations, of which two were novel, and 16 polymorphisms, of which 6 were novel.
Tay-Sachs disease is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder resulting from mutation of the HEXA gene encoding the alpha-subunit of the lysosomal enzyme, beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase A ref. 1.
Using DNA as the starting material, we screened the ATM gene in 92 A-T patients, using an optimized single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) technique that detected all previously known mutations in the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) segments being analyzed.
The recent isolation of the responsible gene (adenomatous polyposis coli or APC) has facilitated the search for germ line mutations in affected individuals.
Seven distinct mutations were identified; five of these occurred in two or more families.
The ATM gene is responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), characterized by cerebellar degeneration, immunodeficiency and cancer predisposition.
Our findings provide additional evidence for the pathogenetic role of CHM mutations and provide a diagnostic tool for one fifth of the world's known CHM patients..
HFE is the protein product of the gene mutated in the autosomal recessive disease hereditary hemochromatosis Feder, J. N., Gnirke, A., Thomas, W., Tsuchihashi, Z., Ruddy, D. A., Basava, A., Dormishian, F., Domingo, R. J., Ellis, M. C., Fullan, A., Hinton, L. M., Jones, N. L., Kimmel, B. E., Kronmal, G. S., Lauer, P., Lee, V. K., Loeb, D. B., Mapa, F. A., McClelland, E., Meyer, N. C., Mintier, G. A., Moeller, N., Moore, T., Morikang, E., Prasss, C. E., Quintana, L., Starnes, S. M., Schatzman, R. C., Brunke, K. J., Drayna, D. T., Risch, N. J., Bacon, B. R., and Wolff, R. R. (1996) Nat.
The gene alterations in TP53 and P16INK4A genes may be used as tumor markers in our family..
The plasma lipoprotein profiles and high density lipoproteins (HDL) were characterized in patients with the genetic disease cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis CTX.
We have also examined a patient with NKH with no detectable GLDC mRNA in his lymphoblasts.
Q188R is the most common mutation in European populations or in those predominantly of European descent.
In the initial 48 patients, SSCP analysis was followed by PTT for those patients for whom no detectable mutations were found by SSCP.
Germline mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumor-suppressor gene result in the hereditary colorectal cancer syndrome familial adenomatous polyposis FAP.
Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA; OMIM#253000), a lysosomal storage disorder caused by a deficiency of N -acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase (GALNS), has variable clinical phenotypes.
The severity of the disease correlates with the position of the inherited APC mutation genotype-phenotype correlation.
We show that Foxc1 (+/-)mice have anterior segment abnormalities similar to those reported in human patients.
In addition, our screening showed that the S65C substitution was significantly enriched in probands with at least one chromosome without an assigned mutation.
We report three new cases, two carrying a previously described WT1 exon 9 mutation and one with a novel WT1 exon 8 mutation.
Recurrent mutation has been observed at several of these sites, producing associations with different haplotypes in different populations.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by skeletal muscle wasting, myotonia, cardiac arrhythmia, hyperinsulinaemia, mental retardation and ocular cataracts.
All patients were found to be homozygous for a newly identified C ->T transition in codon 21 (exon 2) substituting arginine for a premature stop codon (R21X: CGA to TGA) and generating a NlaIII restriction site.
HMGIC is predominantly expressed in proliferating, undifferentiated mesenchymal cells and is not detected in adult tissues.
Only 20 of 4000 (0.5%) patients had late-onset FMF.
We previously reported nine children with an autosomally recessive form of congenital hypothyroidism due to an iodide transport defect in a large Hutterite family with extensive consanguinity living in central Canada.
A muscle biopsy from an Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EMDM) patient showed complete absence of emerin by both Western blotting and immunohistochemistry, suggesting a simple diagnostic antibody test for EDMD families.
Four of these mutations were genomic rearrangements resulting from homologous and nonhomologous recombinations mediated by Alu elements.
The response to treatment was good despite using low colchicine dose, P < 0.05.
The mutation was found to segregate with the AAS phenotype in affected males and carrier females in the family of this patient.
A high risk of colorectal cancer was predicted when an interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 5, del 5 (q15q22.3), was detected in her lymphocytes and deletion of the MCC and APC genes confirmed by molecular analysis.
Therefore, the accumulation of the types of mutations in Japanese patients with WD will facilitate the fast and effective genetic diagnosis of WD in Japanese patients..
Our data demonstrate that mutations occur in the Mxi1 gene in neurofibrosarcoma.
The disease is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and sustained muscle contraction, often with a wide range of accompanying symptoms.
We generated transgenic mice carrying large human genomic sequences with 20, 55 or >300 CTG, cloned from patients from the same affected DM family.
The major cause of hepatic copper accumulation in man is a dysfunctional ATP7B gene, causing Wilson disease WD.
Indentification of genetic marker, HL-A W27, for susceptible persons has provided a tool facilitating epidemiologic studies and allowing identification of control" populations without the marker. "
The remaining 101 cases from the same series not associated with a BRCA mutation and 2 additional groups (Gynecologic Oncology Group protocols 52 and 111) with ovarian cancer from clinical trials (for the survival analysis) were included for comparison.
In the present study we have analyzed the AVP-neurophysin II (AVP-NPII) gene in a Spanish kindred.
Direct sequencing of PCR products identified a novel insertion of an A after nt 547 in family 1.
We have reported isolation of a cDNA fragment that recognizes chromosomal sequences possessing many of the attributes of the retinoblastoma gene associated with the RB1 locus.
Using linkage disequilibrium analysis based on haplotype data of seven polymorphic markers close to the frataxin gene, the age of FRDA founding mutational event(s) is estimated to be at least 682+/-203 generations (95% confidence interval: 564-801 g), a dating which is consistent with little or no negative selection and provides further evidence for an ancient spread of a pre-mutation (at-risk alleles) in western Europe..
Furthermore, SNRPN was mapped to the minimal deletion interval that is critical for PWS.
Northern blot analysis and sequencing of cloned PCR amplified VLCAD cDNA from four unrelated patients with VLCAD deficiency showed that VLCAD mRNA was undetectable in one patient and that the other three have mutations in both VLCAD alleles.
Each family contained: (i) two cases of gastric cancer in first degree relatives with one affected before age 50 years; or (ii) three or more cases of gastric cancer.
In this family of disorders, a normally polymorphic CAG repeat becomes expanded, resulting in expression of an expanded polyglutamine domain in the disease gene product.
In 17 unrelated patients and 15 controls, PCR products derived from the promoter region, exons 1 and 2 as well as the coding part of exon 3 were analysed with the single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) technique.
These data demonstrate that: 1 type I human complement C2 deficiency is caused by a 28-base pair genomic deletion that causes skipping of exon 6 during RNA splicing, resulting in generation of a premature termination codon, 2 the 28-base pair deletion in the type I C2Q0 gene is strongly associated with the HLA haplotype/complotype A25,B18,C2Q0,BfS,C4A4,C4B2,Drw2, suggesting that all C2-deficient individuals with this haplotype/complotype will harbor the 28-base pair C2 gene deletion, and 3 type II C2 deficiency is caused by a different, as yet uncharacterized, molecular genetic defect..
A deficiency of AAT in individuals homozygous for the PI Z allele occurs in about 1 in 2,000-8,000 caucasians and is associated with an increased risk of early adult onset emphysema and liver disease in childhood.
This pattern corresponds to mutations leading mainly to truncated proteins with few specific missense mutations.
From the alignment of the amino acid (aa) sequence of 52 glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) species from 42 different organisms, we found a striking correlation between the aa replacements that cause G6PD deficiency in humans and the sequence conservation of G6PD: two-thirds of such replacements are in highly and moderately conserved (50-99%) aa; relatively few are in fully conserved aa (where they might be lethal) or in poorly conserved aa, where presumably they simply would not cause G6PD deficiency.
However, a defective G2-M checkpoint in these cells is accompanied by extensive chromosomal abnormalities.
Age penetrance is greater for BRCA1-linked than for BRCA2-linked cancers in this population..
A screen of human tissues with this antibody reveals retinoschisin to be retina specific and the antibody detects a protein of similar size in bovine and murine retinae.
Kinzler (eds.), The Genetic Basis of Human Cancer, pp. 455-473, McGraw-Hill, 1998.
Abnormal color vision has been observed in 12 of 27 patients with adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN), a milder form of ALD.
In view of the current explosive increase in full genome sequencing projects, this tool will become rapidly available for numerous other genes..
In parallel, measurement of the gut mucosal iron content as well as iron regulatory proteins allows a more informed evaluation of various hypotheses regarding the precise role of HFE in iron homeostasis.
We therefore conclude that the HGO cDNA encodes the gene responsible for alkaptonuria..
Elsewhere we reported an in-frame deletion of one of the two adjacent phenylalanine codons at position 304 or 305 (delta F304/305) in one HEXA allele of a Moroccan Jewish TSD patient and in three obligate carriers from six unrelated Moroccan Jewish families.
The APC gene is located within band 5q22.
In addition, this test enabled us to identify two fragile X patients who did not show the full mutation by analysis of DNA isolated from blood cells..
Several distinct clinical phenotypes are known.
The mutated CDK4 allele was present in autologous cultured melanoma cells and metastasis tissue, but not in the patient's lymphocytes.
We screened 31 human gastric cancers, 7 esophageal cancers, 85 bone and soft tissue tumors of various types, including 4 neurofibrosarcomas.
We adopted both single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and a method of analysis involving the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) followed by a protein truncation test PTT.
The estimated proportion of families (alpha) linked to the locus was.06 1-LOD support interval.01-.12.
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is an X-linked recessive muscular dystrophy characterized by early contractures of the elbows, Achilles tendons and spine, slowly progressive muscle wasting and weakness, and cardiomyopathy associated with cardiac conduction defects.
A recombination event between a (GT)n polymorphism in intron 2 of the MAOB gene and the NDP locus, in a family previously reported to have a recombination between DXS7 and NDP, delineates a flanking marker telomeric to this disease gene.
The larger allele size correlated with bladder symptoms and the presence of foot deformity.
Among these patients we identified seven (8.5%) ATM germline mutations, of which five are distinct.
This leads to reduced levels of the protein, frataxin.
Parasite growth was approximately one-third of normal in both hemi- and heterozygotes for G6PD deficiency.
Hereditary coproporphyria (HC) is an acute hepatic porphyria with autosomal dominant inheritance caused by deficient activity of coproporphyrinogen III oxidase CPO.
In the Caucasian population, it has been demonstrated that the insulin gene (INS) region contains the insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus locus IDDM2.
Germline mutations were identified in 38 patients 61%.
On the basis of these families, and of six maternally and five paternally derived unbalanced-translocation DGS probands in the literature, parent of origin or imprinting does not appear to play an important role in the pathogenesis of DGS.
In RT-PCR analysis, only a truncated transcript was detected in the patient, whereas both normal and truncated transcripts were detected in the siblings.
One splicing mutation results in a 3 amino acid in-frame insertion.
In this group of patients, 7 different mutations have been identified, including 2 deletions 295-298delTCAT, 1897delC , 1 splice-site mutation IVS14+1G>A and 4 missense mutations 85T>C, 703C>T, 2658G>A, 2983G>T.
We report details of a family with classic Li-Fraumeni syndrome in which there is a mutation in codon 344 of the tumour suppressor gene TP53.
Our results confirm that the mutation detection rate with PTT was superior to that with SSCP, and suggest that PTT would be a more practical screening method to detect germline mutations of the APC gene in FAP patients..
We propose that the (CUG)n is an essential cis acting element for this splicing event.
We have analyzed 20 breast-ovarian cancer families, the majority of which show positive evidence of linkage to chromosome 17q12 for germ-line mutations in the BRCA1 gene.
Multiple species comparison and the crystal structure of human beta-glucuronidase indicated that E351 is a highly conserved residue most likely essential in maintenance of the enzyme's conformation.
After crossbreeding with female mice of the EIIa-cre strain, the floxed allele undergoes Cre-mediated recombination with high efficiency during early embryonic development.
On the basis of a sperm typing study performed in patients of Japanese descent with Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), it was reported that disease alleles are preferentially transmitted during meiosis.
Thus, a homozygous germ-line MLH1 mutation and consequent mismatch repair deficiency results in a mutator phenotype characterized by leukemia and/or lymphoma associated with neurofibromatosis type 1..
Biopsy specimens of 16 oral lesions, 12 of them associated with the teeth, plus two facial lesions were studied histologically.
The fourth mutation is recessive and affects the inhibitory domain (R1) that binds the NAB transcriptional co-repressors.
We have designed high-density arrays consisting of over 96,600 oligonucleotides 20-nucleotides (nt) in length to screen for a wide range of heterozygous mutations in the 3.45-kilobases (kb) exon 11 of the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene BRCA1.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is commonly associated with CTG repeat expansions within the gene for DM-protein kinase DMPK.
Mutations resulting in defective splicing constitute a significant proportion 30/62 48% of a new series of mutations in the ATM gene in patients with ataxia-telangiectasia (AT) that were detected by the protein-truncation assay followed by sequence analysis of genomic DNA.
G130V, when present with an expanded GAA repeat on the other allele, is associated with an atypical FRDA phenotype.
The mRNA expression pattern of one of them, designated as XK, correlates closely to the McLeod phenotype.
Analyses of rodent-human somatic-cell hybrids, YAC contigs, and FISH of normal or rearranged chromosomes 15 identified duplicated sequences (the END repeats) at or near the breakpoints.
We have used this technique to analyze BRCA1 in 162 families with a history of breast and/or ovarian cancer and identified 12 distinct mutations in 35 families..
The significance of this association is controversial, though the association of C2 deficiency with certain histocompatibility antigens suggests possible linkage to immune response genes.
The entire coding region of BRCA1 and BRCA2 was screened for the presence of germline mutations, by use of SSCP followed by direct sequencing of observed variants.
The Na+/glucose cotransporter gene SGLT1 encodes the primary carrier protein responsible for the uptake of the dietary sugars glucose and galactose from the intestinal lumen.
It contains the C-terminal and the cysteine-rich domains of dystrophin, seven additional amino acids at the N terminus, and some modifications formed by alternative splicing in the C-terminal domain.
There are three mechanisms by which CTG expansion can result in DM.
An expansion of a GAA trinucleotide repeat in intron 1 of the gene is present in more than 95% of mutant alleles.
In 16 of 17 breast and ovarian cancer lines and 17 of 17 samples of cells obtained from malignant effusions, however, BRCA1 localized mainly in cytoplasm.
We have shown that a cosmid probe for a candidate aniridia gene, homologous to the mouse Pax-6 gene, is deleted in cell lines from aniridia patients with previously characterized deletions at 11p13, while another cosmid marker mapping between two aniridia-associated translocation breakpoints (and hence a second candidate marker) is present on both chromosomes.
Wolfram syndrome is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by juvenile-onset diabetes mellitus and progressive optic atrophy.
This disorder was mapped to chromosome 7 and the gene causing Pendred syndrome (PDS) was subsequently identified by positional cloning.
Using this methodology we have found X-ALD mutations in 30 kindreds, including 15 not previously reported..
The results of the genotype testing showed that this individual was homozygous for the CYP2C9*3 allele and did not possess any of the known defective CYP2C19 alleles.
Starting from the MCC gene, a strategy was undertaken to identify constitutional submicroscopic deletions in familial adenomatous polyposis patients that might considerably narrow down the position of the APC gene.
Patients with the classical form (type I) and the more severely affected, connatal variant of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (type II) would be predicted to display mutation at the PLP locus.
Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in the region close to the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene was detected in this carcinoma, and evidence was obtained that there was a loss of the normal allele of the APC gene.
A comparison of the six mutations in the relative proportions of cases of breast and ovarian cancer was suggestive of an effect (P = .069), with 57% of women presumed affected because of the 1294 del 40 BRCA1 mutation having ovarian cancer, compared with 14% of affected women with the splice-site mutation in intron 5 of BRCA1.
Clinical recognition of VLCAD deficiency is important because it is one of the few directly treatable causes of cardiomyopathy in children..
Patients with the Denys-Drash syndrome (Wilms' tumor, genital anomalies, and nephropathy) have been demonstrated to carry de novo constitutional mutations in WT1, the Wilms' tumor gene at chromosome 11p13.
Metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by a deficiency of arylsulfatase A ARSA; EC 3.1.6.8.
The study of mutational events revealed a significant difference between somatic and germline mutations with mutations leading to truncated proteins observed in 78% of somatic mutations vs only 37% in germline mutations P < 0.001.
Four mouse models of PWS have been reported but these do not definitively allow the delineation of the critical region and the associated genes involved in the aetiology of PWS.
Among these mutations, 50% correspond to new mutations.
A syndrome of microcephaly, progressive postnatal growth deficiency, and mental retardation was observed in two brothers and their cousin from a multiply consanguineous kindred of Lebanese descent.
The role of FMR1 remains undetermined but the protein appears to be involved in RNA metabolism.
A previous linkage study provided evidence for a prostate cancer-susceptibility locus at 1q24-25.
Mutations at the 5' end of APC are known to be associated with a relatively mild form of the disease, called attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli AAPC.
Studying two siblings with FRDA from two families we did not detect a mutation in STM7/X25.
Mutations in the gene that encodes type II collagen (COL2A1), the predominant protein of cartilage, have been identified in a number of individuals with Kniest dysplasia.
The present results provide evidence that mutations in PDS cause both syndromic and non-syndromic hearing loss..
Of the causative GBA mutations, N370S is particularly frequent in the AJ population, (q approximately .03), whereas the 84GG insertion (q approximately .003) occurs exclusively in the Ashkenazim.
We recently reported the positional cloning of a candidate gene for hereditary hemochromatosis called HFE.
Canavan disease, or spongy degeneration of the brain, is a severe leukodystrophy caused by the deficiency of aspartoacylase ASPA.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a genetic disorder secondary to a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
All affected individuals presented a missense mutation (G1757-->A) that replaces glycine at position 23 with arginine within the NPII domain.
The myotonic dystrophy (DM) mutation is an unstable (CTG)n repeat, present at a copy number of 5-37 repeats on normal chromosomes but amplified to 50-3000 copies on DM chromosomes.
Our findings add support to the notion that diverse point mutations may account largely for much of the phenotypic heterogeneity of G6PD deficiency..
Using homologous recombination to disrupt the normal translation of ATP7B, we have generated a strain of mice that are homozygous mutants (null) for the Wilson disease gene.
Then, 189 MPKUCS subjects were grouped according to the various combinations of mutation classifications.
In contrast, hSNF5/INI1 point mutations were not detected in breast cancers, Wilms' tumors, gliomas, ependymomas, sarcomas and other tumor types, even though most analyzed cases harbored loss of heterozygosity at 22q11.2 loci.
The data suggest that the G-to-A mutation may be common in human plasma CETP deficiency.
The EWS gene has been identified based on its location at the chromosome 22 breakpoint of the t 11;22 (q24;q12) translocation that characterizes Ewing sarcoma and related neuroectodermal tumors.
Of 44 patients, nine (20%) had facial angiofibromas, tumours primarily occurring in association with tuberous sclerosis.
To our knowledge, our results are the first to demonstrate that aminoglycosides can suppress stop codons not only in vitro but also in vivo.
Mutations in the human EGR2 gene have recently been associated with the inherited peripheral neuropathies Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1, Dejerine-Sottas syndrome and congenital hypomyelinating neuropathy.
Motor development was delayed.
The HFE candidate gene encoding an HLA class I-like protein involved in HH was identified in 1996.
We have cloned cDNAs for the rat gene (Atp7b) homologous to the human Wilson disease gene (ATP7B) and have used them to identify a partial deletion in the Atp7b gene in the LEC rat.
The disorder exhibits considerable allelic heterogeneity and, at the end of 1998, more than 150 different base changes were recorded in 24 different populations and ethnic groups in 15 countries worldwide.
A 5-bp sequence, GGAAT, found exactly at the translocation breakpoints on both normal chromosomes X and 4, has been preserved only on the der(4) chromosome.
Information on DMPK mRNA and protein isoform expression patterns will be useful for recognizing differential effects of CTG (n)expansion in DM manifestation..
The presence of nebulin in a muscle specimen from a patient with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) due to a large deletion precludes the possibility that this protein is the DMD gene product..
In cotransfection experiments, Fas constructs with either intra- or extracellular mutations caused dominant inhibition of apoptosis mediated by wild-type Fas.
These linkage data narrow the boundaries within which the WAS locus maps to the chromosomal region bracketed by TIMP and DXS146 and support the loci order Xpter-DXS7-TIMP- OATL1, WAS, DXS255 -DXS146..
One tumor had a 1-bp deletion in an intron near the splicing site.
These data provide insight into the possible disease mechanisms underlying EGR2 mutations and the reason for varying severity and differences in inheritance patterns..
A series of subclones prepared from a 'phage library (lambda DASH II) of the YAC have been characterised and have been employed to determine the end point of the deletion of a Norrie disease (NDP) patient who has been shown to lack both DXS7 and MAO coding sequences.
Given that the skin of these adult mice also exhibits signs of de novo hair-follicle morphogenesis, we wondered whether human pilomatricomas might originate from hair matrix cells and whether they might possess beta-catenin-stabilizing mutations.
We have constructed a physical map of a 4 cM region on chromosome 17q12-21 that contains the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene BRCA1.
MRI demonstrated white matter abnormalities in the lateral and dorsal columns of the spinal cord.
The gene encoding receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B (RANK; ref. 5), TNFRSF11A, maps to this region.
Mutations in the OCRL1 gene have been associated with the disease.
Denys-Drash syndrome is a rare human developmental disorder affecting the urogenital system and leading to renal failure, intersex disorders and Wilms' tumour.
We have searched for hSNF5/INI1 mutations in 229 tumors of various origins using a screening method based on denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography.
Analysis of mosaic mice showed that in heart, lung, kidney, brain, and liver, mainly wild-type Piga is active, suggesting that these tissues require GPI-linked proteins.
Although MHC genes, including HLA-B27, contribute only 20-50% of the genetic risk for the disease, no non-MHC gene has yet been convincingly demonstrated to influence either susceptibility to the disease or its phenotypic expression.
Reexamination of all 29 mutations and polymorphisms thus far described in HGO shows that these nucleotide changes are not randomly distributed; the CCC sequence motif and its inverted complement, GGG, are preferentially mutated.
Age of onset (AO) of Huntington disease (HD) is known to be correlated with the length of an expanded CAG repeat in the HD gene.
Recent studies in animal models elucidated a central role of alpha-MSH in the regulation of food intake by activation of the brain melanocortin-4-receptor (MC4-R; refs 3-5) and the linkage of human obesity to chromosome 2 in close proximity to the POMC locus, led to the proposal of an association of POMC with human obesity.The dual role of alpha-MSH in regulating food intake and influencing hair pigmentation predicts that the phenotype associated with a defect in POMC function would include obesity, alteration in pigmentation and ACTH deficiency.
Aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by deficiency of aspartylglucosaminidase AGA.
Most missense mutations involved amino acids conserved in homologous gene products, including PMP70, mALDRP, and Pxa1p.
For A-T heterozygotes younger than age 45, the risk of dying from a malignant neoplasm was estimated to be greater than 5 times the risk for the general population.
A G-->A transition at nt 1444 (exon 13) corresponding to the E482K substitution was found in the third family.
On the basis of clinical and biochemical observations, the younger boy was considered to have a classical type of the disease, while the older boy had an atypical form characterized by partial impairment of the skin histidase activity and a moderately prolonged half-life of blood histidine.
Four heterozygous carriers were patients with bilateral breast cancer.
An exon 1 nonsense mutation (856C-->T) introduces a premature stop codon at amino acid 286.
The human genotype-phenotype correlations are consistent with a role for Dp260 in normal retinal electrophysiology and may also reflect the expression of other C-terminal dystrophin isoforms and their contributions to retinal signal transmission..
In this report, four individuals with this syndrome are described carrying germline point mutations in the Wilms' tumour suppressor gene, WT1.
These observations link ATM and p95/nbs1 in a common signalling pathway and provide an explanation for phenotypic similarities in these two diseases..
First, repeat expansion may alter the processing or transport of the mutant DMPK mRNA and consequently reduce DMPK levels.
Interestingly, all patients with cardiac involvement were homozygous for one of these mutations: R59H, Y591C, Y591N, or IVS14-2A>G.
Most multiple case families of young onset breast cancer and ovarian cancer are thought to be due to highly penetrant mutations in the predisposing genes BRCA1 and BRCA2.
CETP deficiency, reflecting two prevalent mutations (D442G and Int14 A), is the first example of a genetic deficiency state which is sufficiently common to explain a significant fraction of the variation in HDL-C in the general population..
While a few cases of isolated ACTH deficiency have been reported (OMIM 201400), an inherited POMC defect has not been described so far.
After birth he showed hypotonia with poor sucking, for which gavage feeding was needed.
Ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthropathy and entero-arthropathy may be regarded as clinical sub-types of the syndrome..
The Schwartz-Jampel syndrome (SJS; chondrodystrophic myotonia; McK 255,800) is a recessively inherited condition defined by myotonia, short stature, and bone dysplasia.
We report here the molecular characterization of two galactosemia mutations, L74P and F171S, and one polymorphism, S135L, in human galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase GALT.
Here we use muscle biopsies from classical adult-onset myotonic dystrophy patients to study the accumulation of transcripts from both the normal and expanded DM kinase genes in patient muscle, and compare the results to normal and myopathic controls.
Sequencing of the index patients' genomic DNA identified four new dominant mutations in COL2A1 that result in Kniest dysplasia: a 21-bp deletion in exon 16, an 18-bp deletion in exon 19, and 4-bp deletions in the splice donor sites of introns 14 and 20.
This mutation occurs at a CpG dinucleotide.
This finding supports simple autosomal recessive inheritance for HMS in these families.
We compared horizontal eye movements (visually guided saccades, antisaccades, and smooth pursuit) in control subjects (n = 14) and patients with three forms of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias type I: spinocerebellar ataxias 1 and 2 (SCA1, n = 11; SCA2, n = 10) and SCA3/Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) n = 16.
To assess the prevalence and clinical expression of the HFE gene, we conducted a population-based study in Busselton, Australia.
To investigate the actions of these transcription factors, both Pax3 and PAX3-FKHR were introduced into NIH 3T3 cells, and the resultant gene expression changes were analyzed with a murine cDNA microarray containing 2,225 elements.
These studies will not only help to illuminate the molecular basis of the general class of human diseases with trinucleotide repeat expansion but also provide an avenue to understand aspects of human cognition and intelligence..
However, only one (1.15%; 95% confidence interval, 0-3.6%) of the patients was heterozygous for the BRCA1 mutant allele, and only two were heterozygous for the BRCA2 mutation 2.4%; 95% confidence interval, 0-6.2%.
Their relatives were described with respect to absence/presence of breast and/or ovarian cancer.
RS1 encodes a 224 amino acid protein, retinoschisin, which contains a discoidin domain but is of unknown function.
One splice-site mutation (IVS10-6T-->G) was detected three times in our series.
To discover genes involved in von Hippel-Lindau (VHL)-mediated carcinogenesis, we used renal cell carcinoma cell lines stably transfected with wild-type VHL-expressing transgenes.
These data demonstrate that: 1 there is an identical 2-base pair deletion in an exon of the C5 gene in several different C5-deficient mouse strains; 2 the mRNA transcribed from the C5D gene retains this deletion; and 3 this mutation should result in C5 protein deficiency..
An antibody against the synthetic C-terminal peptides deduced from the cDNA of the gene responsible for X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) was produced to characterize the product of the ALD gene.
Southern blot and PCR analyses have indicated that the individual with anhaptoglobinemia was homozygous for the gene deletion and that the gene deletion was included at least from the promoter region of Hp to Hpr alpha but not to Hpr beta Hpdel.
Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is an autosomal recessive syndrome associated with a greatly increased incidence of malignant neoplasms in homozygous affected individuals.
We have studied the genetic linkage of two markers, the apolipoprotein C1 (APOC1) gene and a cytochrome P450 (CYP2A) gene, in relation to the gene for myotonic dystrophy DM.
Purified BRCT polypeptide was used as a probe to screen a human placenta cDNA expression library by Far Western analysis.
Mutations in the diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter gene DTDST have been associated with a family of chondrodysplasias that comprises, in order of increasing severity, diastrophic dysplasia (DTD), atelosteogenesis type 2 (AO2), and achondrogenesis type 1B ACG1B.
In Sri Lanka we have found H63D on three new haplotypes and have found C282Y on one new haplotype, demonstrating that these mutations have arisen independently on this island.
The Rb1 gene has been implicated with retinoblastoma and is located on human Chromosome (Chr) 13q14.2. A unique sequence human Rb1 cosmid DNA probe has been used to localize this region on apes' Chr 14 by the FISH technique.
A total of 26 families had both breast and ovarian cancers, 4 families had ovarian cancers only, and 36 families had breast cancers only.
A novel C to A mutation in the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene (CYP27) was identified by sequencing amplified CYP27 gene products from a patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis CTX.
We have discovered that a Tay-Sachs mutation, IVS-9 + 1 G-->A, first detected by Akli et al.
We report here the complete characterization of the 48 exons of the COL4A4 gene, a comprehensive gene screen, and the subsequent detection of 10 novel mutations in eight patients diagnosed with autosomal recessive Alport syndrome.
Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by a genetic defect in N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase GALNS.
This cohort underwent follow-up for cancer incidence through the Finnish Cancer Registry to the end of 1995.
Sera from eight family members who were apparently heterozygous for C5 deficiency gave normal chemotactic scores.
However, following splenectomy to increase the platelet count, biopsy of the mediastinal mass revealed T-cell large cell lymphoma.
For case-control studies, 617 unrelated individuals with AS (361 probands from sibling-pair and parent-case trio families and 256 unrelated non-familial sporadic cases) and 402 healthy ethnically matched controls were employed.
This observed increase in ventilatory output was not correlated to changes in body mass index.
We developed methods to detect the three mutations in the HEXA gene that occur with high frequency among Ashkenazi Jews: two mutations cause infantile Tay-Sachs disease, and the third causes the adult-onset form of the disease.
The electroretinograms (ERGs) of Prph2Rd2/Rd2 mice have greatly diminished a-wave and b-wave amplitudes, which decline to virtually undetectable concentrations by two months.
The segregation distortion favoring the mutant RB1 allele does not seem to occur during spermatogenesis, and, thus, meiotic drive may result either from various mechanisms, including a fertilization advantage or a better mobility in sperm bearing a mutant RB1 gene, or from the existence of a defectively imprinted gene located on the human X chromosome..
Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is a recessive multi-system disorder caused by mutations in the ATM gene at 11q22-q23 ref. 3.
Similar defects were found in a Fas-negative cell line transfected with cDNAs bearing each of the mutations.
The prepromyelocytic cell line HL60 expressed MEFV only at granulocytic and monocytic differentiation.
One further B27 negative patients had a sister with ankylosing spondylitis and ulcerative colitis and a mother with ulcerative colitis.
The three novel AKU mutations are most likely specific for the Finnish population and have originated recently..
In contrast, anti-Br(a) (HPA-5b) only recognized the Lys 505 Thr(799) form, whereas anti-Br(b) (HPA-5a) reacted with both Glu 505 Thr(799) and Glu 505 Met(799) isoforms.
An observed excess of mutation carriers could not be accounted for by methodological problems; possible explanations were a true" low penetrance or preferential segregation.. "
These findings establish that some neuropathological abnormalities seen in A-T patients also are present in Atm mutant mice.
However, the nucleotide change resulted in exon 3 skipping, whereas the latter K247Q mutation had a drastic effect on enzyme activity.
This represents a unique inheritance pattern due to imprinting..
Six of the point mutations represented missense mutations, 1 was a nonsense mutation, and 1 was a frameshift mutation.
Hepatoblastoma is a rare malignant tumor of the liver that occurs in children at an average age of 2 to 3 years.
We have approached this question by producing G6PD B, A, A-, and G6PD 68 Val-->Met in a bacterial expression system and analysing their biochemical properties.
The high prevalence of glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency in African populations is due almost entirely to the enzyme variant A-, which differs from the wild-type G6PD B by two amino acid replacements, 68 Val-->Met and 126 Asn-->Asp.
The mutations 2871delC and R778L have been previously reported in a relatively large number of Japanese patients.
The mutations were identical in each of 2 pairs of brothers.
We had not seen a case of homozygosity for c862t (R279W) until we analysed DNA from a 36 year old male with tall-normal stature (180 cm) who asked for genetic counselling for suspected multiple epiphyseal dysplasia.
S135L is found almost exclusively in African Americans.
Here, it is shown that BRCA1 interacts in vitro and in vivo with hRad50, which forms a complex with hMre11 and p95/nibrin.
Both mutations were predicted to truncate the E-cadherin protein in the signal peptide domain.
Mice carrying each of the two mutations were bred and analyzed.
However, there are differences in the abundance of GALT protein in lymphoblastoid cells lines from D2 and D1 individuals.
Despite the ubiquitous expression of the truncated HMG I-C protein, the transgenic mice develop a selective abundance of fat tissue early in life, show marked adipose tissue inflammation, and have an abnormally high incidence of lipomas.
The history further indicated intrauterine growth retardation at the end of the pregnancy.
Within the families with male-to-male disease transmission, alpha increased with the early mean age at diagnosis (<65 years, alpha =.19, with 1-LOD support interval.06-.34) and the number of affected family members five or more family members, alpha =.15, with 1-LOD support interval.04-.28.
The observed increase in ventilation and inspiratory drive may contribute to the improved activity level reported by parents of PWS children during growth hormone therapy..
Reduced levels of a normal-size WASP with a missense mutation were seen in two individuals with XLT.
We postulate that altered metabolism of a natural toxin or antigen by the CYP2D6 gene may increase susceptibility to AS..
Some patients have only palmoplantar keratosis or periodontitis, and in rare individuals the periodontitis is mild and of late onset.
Two novel mutations, c.38T-->C (L13P) and c.667T-->C (C223R), respectively, present the first genetic evidence for the functional significance of the putative leader peptide sequence and for the functional significance at the carboxyl terminal of the XLRS1 protein beyond the discoidin domain.
Reintroduced wild-type VHL strongly inhibited the overexpression of the CA12 gene in the parental renal cell carcinoma cell lines.
Here we show that phosphorylation of NBS1, induced by ionizing radiation, requires catalytically active ATM.
Likelihood-based analysis of segregation distortion in the single sperm data using the SPERMSEG program also showed no support for segregation distortion at the gamete level in this patient population.
The FMF gene (MEFV) was cloned recently, and four missense mutations were identified.
G6PD deficiency in different geographical areas appears to have arisen through independent mutational events, but within the same population it may also be heterogeneous.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) gene was found to be mutated in patients presenting with WAS and in patients showing X-linked thrombocytopenia.
Nevertheless, like the human gene, mouse Mefv is expressed in peripheral blood granulocytes but not lymphocytes.
Loss of heterozygosity data from familial tumors suggest that BRCA1, a gene that confers susceptibility to ovarian and early-onset breast cancer, encodes a tumor suppressor.
Fluorescence in situ hybridisation using yeast artificial chromosome clones from Xq26 localised the duplication breakpoint to an approximately 400-kb interval in the Xq26.3 region between DXS155 and DXS294/DXS730.
The mutation in the remaining allele was a single-base transition in the donor splice site of the alpha-subunit intron 9.
The AMELX gene located at Xp22.1-p22.3 encodes for the enamel protein amelogenin and has been implicated as the gene responsible for the inherited dental abnormality X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta XAI.
The same residue is often mutated in the Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) gene in patients with an X-linked agammaglobulinemia.
Fifteen missense mutations and two newly engineered active site mutations (C79S, C79T) were characterized by transient expression analysis.
Clinically observed dysgenesis does not correlate with IOP, however, and the etiology of glaucoma development is not understood.
Implementation of this method of mutation screening in the research and clinical setting should permit rapid accrual of quantitative data on genotype-phenotype associations for the evaluation of diagnostic testing..
We report on a family in which a male and a female paternal first cousin both have PWS with cytogenetically normal karyotypes.
Phosphorylation of BRCA1 at serine 988 is required for the release of BRCA1 from hCds1.
We conclude that these mice very closely mimic severe human von Willebrand disease and will be very useful for investigating the role of vWf in normal physiology and in disease models..
Pulse-chase studies demonstrated that the COLIA1/PDGFB precursor was processed to an end product that was indistinguishable from wild-type PDGF-BB.
In a large pedigree with autosomal dominant aniridia, we found close linkage between the aniridia locus AN2 and the markers catalase (CAT) (zeta = 7.27 at theta = 0.00) and D11S151 (zeta = 3.86 at theta = 0.10) flanking the AN2 locus on 11p13.
A clear correlation between the genotype and phenotype has not been established.
Increased iron deposition and evidence of oxidative damage have also been observed in cardiac tissue and cultured fibroblasts from patients with FRDA.
The difference in frequency of these two alleles is not significant P = 0.8423.
Chem. 273, 22068-22074; Feder, J. N., Penny, D. M., Irrinki, A., Lee, V. K., Lebron, J. A., Watson, N. , Tsuchihashi, Z., Sigal, E., Bjorkman, P. J., and Schatzman, R. C. (1998) Proc.
Hence, molecular screening for Wolfram syndrome in affected families and for Wolfram syndrome-carrier status in subjects with psychiatric disorders or diabetes mellitus will require complete analysis of exon 8 and upstream exons..
We have also found that DCC is a substrate for metalloprotease-dependent ectodomain shedding, and that the inhibitors block proteolytic processing of DCC and cause an increase in DCC protein levels on axons within spinal cord explants.
This method, also called antibody test
Within the English and US families there was little evidence for a recent common origin of the MSH2 splice site mutation in most families.
However, we report that combining these drugs with 5-azadC results in a 2- to 5-fold increase in FMR1 mRNA levels obtained with 5-azadC alone, thus showing a marked synergistic effect of histone hyperacetylation and DNA demethylation in the reactivation of FMR1 full mutations..
In the present study, a TCTAC deletion spanning the nucleotides 631-635 of the emerin gene caused an unusually severe disease phenotype including loss of ambulation and severe muscle wasting in two affected brothers.
Allelic loss is selected strongly in cells with one mutation near codon 1,300.
METHODS: The APC gene was analysed in 190 unrelated FAP and 15 non-FAP colorectal cancer patients using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, the protein truncation test, and direct sequencing.
The frequent occurrence of color vision anomalies observed in patients with adrenomyeloneuropathy (the adult onset form of ALD) thus does not represent a contiguous gene syndrome but a secondary manifestation of ALD..
We have studied genetic linkage between the gene for creatine kinase muscle type (CKMM) and the gene for myotonic dystrophy DM.
The extraordinary conservation of the PAX6 protein at the amino acid level amongst vertebrates predicts that pathological missense mutations should in fact be common even though they are hardly ever seen in aniridia patients.
Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease (PMD) is an X-linked developmental defect of myelination affecting the central nervous system and segregating with the proteolipoprotein (PLP) locus.
Mice containing this allele display all of the hallmarks of human hypobetalipoproteinemia: they produce a truncated apoB protein, apoB70, and have markedly decreased plasma concentrations of apoB, beta-lipoproteins, and total cholesterol.
Molecular study and neuropsychological analysis were performed concurrently on 49 patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) in order to find a molecular explanation for the cognitive impairment observed in most DMD patients.
To derive an animal model for the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, we have used cultured mouse embryonic stem cells, mutagenized by retroviral insertion and selected for loss of HPRT activity, to construct chimaeric mice.
Our studies provide the direct proof of the genetic heterogeneity of G6PD deficiency in the Chinese populations of Taiwan and the PCR/RE digestion method is suitable for simultaneous detection of the 487 G----A and 493 A----G mutations..
The Zellweger spectrum of disease, encompassing Zellweger syndrome and the progressively milder phenotypes of neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy and infantile Refsum disease, is due to a failure to form functional peroxisomes.
Normotriglyceridemic abetalipoproteinemia is a rare familial disorder characterized by an isolated deficiency of apoB-100.
The severity of the condition varied among the closely related patients.
A spectrum of different mutations has been reported in this disease, one missense mutation (Cys163Ser) being responsible for the majority of Finnish cases.
We have brought together information on 864 affected individuals in 164 families (including three new pedigrees) reported in the 137 year period since 1845 when Demarquay first described a family with what was later called van der Woude syndrome VWS.
This data strongly supports the candidature of PAX6 as the gene responsible for hereditary aniridia..
Here, because of the similarities between AT and NBS, we evaluated the functional interactions between ATM and p95/nbs1.
CONCLUSION: Treatment of children with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) seems to have a stimulatory effect on central respiratory structures.
These data suggest that an early event in the pathogenesis of SCA3/MJD may be an altered conformation of ataxin-3 within the nucleus that exposes the polyglutamine domain..
Moreover, p53-mediated stimulation of transcription by BRCA1 was completely abrogated by either a dominant-negative mutant of BRG1 or the cancer-causing deletion in exon 11 of BRCA1.
Finally, one frameshift mutation, 2799delC, modifies the C-terminal part of OCRL1, with an extension of six amino acids.
To date we have identified 65 missense mutations in the GALNS gene from MPS IVA patients, but the correlation between genotype and phenotype has remained unclear.
We report on a boy with a maternal uniparental disomy for chromosome 14 UPD 14.
A family with inherited deficiency of complement factor 2 (C2) is described in which two family members with homozygous C2 deficiency developed cutaneous vasculitis and sicca syndrome.
FHF2 is a large gene extending over approximately 200 kb in Xq26.3 and is composed of at least seven exons.
Loss of expression of imprinted, paternally expressed genes has been implicated in PWS.
An auxiliary beta(1)-subunit, widely expressed in excitable tissues, shifts the voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation toward more negative potentials and restores normal gating kinetics of brain and skeletal muscle Na(+) channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes but has little if any functional effect on the cardiac isoform.
The phenotype is likely to be a contiguous gene syndrome involving genes which are paternally expressed only, located in the human 15q11-q13 region.
MEFV messenger RNA was detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in bone marrow leukocytes, with differential expression observed among cells by in situ hybridization.
Here we present data from non-Ashkenazi Jewish and Arab patients in whom we had not originally found mutations and from a new, more ethnically diverse panel.
Chromosomal analysis was normal 46,XY.
These data not only allow use of flanking markers for presymptomatic diagnosis of FAP but also provide a high-density map of the region for isolation of the APC gene itself and for further assessment of the role of chromosome 5 deletions in the biology of sporadic colorectal cancer..
An altered beta-alanine, uracil and thymine homeostasis might underlie the various clinical abnormalities encountered in patients with DPD deficiency..
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is an autosomal dominant disorder resulting from the expansion of a CTG repeat in the 3' untranslated region of a putative protein kinase DMPK.
We hypothesize that, although loss of necdin expression may be important in the neonatal presentation of PWS, loss of MAGEL2 may be critical to abnormalities in brain development and dysmorphic features in individuals with PWS..
Lipid metabolism was studied in cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with the inherited disorder, Sjogren-Larsson syndrome SLS.
Molecular analysis of an unusual patient with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome has suggested that the mutation is due to a partial HPRT gene duplication.
Most PLS patients display both periodontitis and hyperkeratosis.
Protein S deficiency is a recognized risk factor for venous thrombosis.
Homozygosity mapping in this family assigned the gene to a 26.8-cM region on the chromosome band 8q21.3 -22.1, between the microsatellites at D8S270 and D8S514.
Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis on DNA derived from 100 donors using the restriction enzyme Mae III showed that the Met(799) form of GPIa is restricted to Sit(a) (+) phenotype.
The observation of the same APC mutation in five families from the same geographic area demonstrates a founder effect.
The factor X (F10) genes of 14 unrelated individuals with factor X deficiency (12 familial and two sporadic cases) were sequenced yielding a total of 13 novel mutations.
Our studies implicate a role for HMGIC in fat-cell proliferation, indicating that it may be an adipose-specific target for the treatment of obesity..
The sequencing of the patient's cDNA fragment disclosed a direct conjuction of exon 6 and exon 8.
Restriction mapping and sequencing of clones that span both translocation breakpoints as well as the corresponding normal regions indicate the loss of approximately 5 kb in the formation of the derivative X chromosome, with 4-6 bp deleted from chromosome 4.
The relatives (parents and one sister) had half-normal levels of both immunochemically and functionally determined C7, indicating a heterozygous state for C7 deficiency..
Mutations in 25 of the families were localized to exons 4-6, emphasizing the critical functional significance of the discoidin domain of the XLRS1 protein..
Interestingly, although liver iron stores are greatly increased, splenic iron is decreased.
The overall findings were that disease started to occur at age 30 years and that by age 50 years 48% of the mutation-carrying women had experienced breast and/or ovarian cancer.
Two other normal family members had the underlying direct insertion of chromosome 5 dir ins 5 q31.3q22q23.2.
An allele loss assay was performed using a novel highly polymorphic marker, D1S3753.
Despite its clinical variability, this dominant condition segregates as a single locus at chromosome 19q13.3 in every population studied.
An estimated frequency (0.12%) of complete C9 deficiency due to homozygous Arg95Stop mutation was consistent with frequencies determined by serological studies..
Duodenal expression of DMT1(non-IRE) was not increased, nor was hepatic expression of DMT1 increased.
In vitro, activated lymphocytes from all 17 patients showed apoptotic defects when exposed to an anti-Fas agonist monoclonal antibody.
Three of the four EGR2 mutations are dominant and occur within the zinc finger DNA-binding domain.
This can be problematic when only part of the gene is examined or when relevant DNA alterations are not recognized by standard methods.
The fact that the mouse Snrpn gene is maternally imprinted in brain suggests that loss of the paternally derived SNRPN allele may be involved in the PWS phenotype..
The pedigree and clinical findings were compatible with autosomal recessive transmission of analbuminemia.
These findings indicate that frataxin is essential for mitochondrial iron homeostasis and protection from iron-induced formation of free radicals.
The brain was normal on CT scan and magnetic resonance imaging.
These analyses also demonstrated that the nucleotide substitutions in HGO do not involve CpG dinucleotides, which illustrates important differences between HGO and other genes for the occurrence of mutation at specific short-sequence motifs.
We have determined the structure of GLDC and of its pseudogene (psiGLDC) and studied their expression for a molecular analysis of NKH.
In contrast to other Atm mutant mice, Atm(y/y) mice show a lower incidence of thymic lymphoma and survive beyond a few months of age.
There was evidence of a somewhat later age of onset of symptoms in B27 negative patients.
We analyzed four multiplex VWS families.
Foxc1 (+/-)and Foxc2 (+/-)mice are useful models for studying anterior segment development and its anomalies, and may allow identification of genes that interact with Foxc1 and Foxc2 (or FKHL7 and FKHL14 ) to produce a phenotype with elevated IOP and glaucoma..
Detection of FAS transcripts via real-time quantitative PCR made a severe transcriptional defect unlikely.
The size of the (CAG)n repeat array in the 3' end of the MJD1 gene and the haplotype at a series of microsatellite markers surrounding the MJD1 gene were examined in a large cohort of Japanese and Caucasian subjects affected with Machado-Joseph disease MJD.
Most of the nonsense, frameshift and splice site mutations were found in exons 6-11.
Thus, this child is a unique individual with inherited C3 deficiency presenting with absence of repeated infections, whose symptoms of fever, skin rash, and arthralgia were abated by whole blood transfusion..
This is presently the only animal model for X-linked G6PD deficiency in humans..
This finding underlines the importance of DNA analysis for maternal UPD(14) in patients with a similar PWS-like phenotype even without previous identification of a Robertsonian translocation involving chromosome 14..
These findings provide evidence that PLS and HMS are allelic variants of cathepsin C gene mutations..
Copper concentration in the livers of the newborn homozygous null mutants was decreased dramatically.
Atm, the mouse homolog of the human ATM gene defective in ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), has been identified.
In 51 families with Wilson disease, we have studied DNA haplotypes of dinucleotide repeat polymorphisms (CA repeats) in the 13q14.3 region, to examine these markers for association with the Wilson disease gene WND.
Skin fibroblasts of affected individuals showed several orders of magnitude more chromosome breakage than lymphocytes.
The antisense riboprobe detected RS1 mRNA only in the photoreceptor layer but the protein product of the gene was present both in the photoreceptors and within the inner portions of the retina.
This mutation creates an Fnu4HI restriction site.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis shows a submicroscopic deletion of SNRPN, but not the closely associated loci D15S10, D15S11, D15S63, and GABRB3.
WNT signalling orchestrates a number of developmental programs.
Frataxin function is still unknown but the knockout of the yeast frataxin homologue gene (YFH1) showed a severe defect of mitochondrial respiration and loss of mtDNA associated with elevated intramitochondrial iron.
This has implications regarding the mechanism by which the mutant allele exerts its effect..
To determine the molecular basis of autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus, the AVP genes of members of a large kindred were analyzed.
This response includes S-phase checkpoint activation, formation of the NBS1/Mrel1/Rad50 nuclear foci and rescue of hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation.
Two of the patients, 4-5 month old boys, were found to have a novel disease, VLCAD deficiency, as judged from the results of very low palmitoyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity and the lack of immunoreactivity toward antibody raised to purified VLCAD..
In contrast, all other patients were compound heterozygous for one of the following mutations: R201H, R482H, G579D, IVS8+2T>C.
Missense mutations in the functional domain of Mxi1 in these cases may be involved in the pathogenesis of neurofibrosarcoma..
The mother is a heterozygous carrier, while the father and sister seem to be normal..
However, attempts to confirm that G6PD deficiency is protective in case-control studies of malaria have yielded conflicting results.
Type I von Willebrand disease (vWD) is characterized by equally low plasma concentrations of von Willebrand factor antigen (vWF:Ag) and ristocetin cofactor (RiCof) and by the presence of all vWF multimers in sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-agarose gel electrophoresis.
Consistent with its expression in granulocytes, Mefv was detected at high levels in the primary follicles and marginal zones of the splenic white pulp.
Pedigree data suggest that this mutation has been in the Cajun population since its founding over 2 centuries ago and that it may be widely distributed within the population.
These studies demonstrate the importance of proline 183 for the proper structure/function of emerin..
All of the parents tested were heterozygous for the mutation, suggesting that the patients were homozygous.
Since the original report, we have diagnosed congenital hypothyroidism by newborn TSH screening in 9 additional children from the family.
We reexamined a group of VHL patients shown previously by single-strand conformation and sequencing analysis not to harbor point mutations in the VHL locus.
Interestingly, all three subjects were probably heterozygous for both subtotal C6 and complete C6 deficiency..
Friedreich ataxia, an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease, is the most common of the inherited ataxias.
Glycerol kinase (GK) represents the primary entry of glycerol into glucose and triglyceride metabolism.
Thirty-two unrelated patients with features of Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, a common autosomal dominant condition of craniosynostosis and limb anomalies, were screened for mutations in TWIST, FGFR2, and FGFR3.
We show herein that CTLA-4 is present in enlarged, abnormal vesicles in CHS T cells and is not properly expressed at the cell surface after T cell activation, whereas its surface expression is not impaired.
Papillon-Lefevre syndrome, or keratosis palmoplantaris with periodontopathia (PLS, MIM 245000), is an autosomal recessive disorder that is mainly ascertained by dentists because of the severe periodontitis that afflicts patients.
The severity of the disease in patients and controls was determined using a modified score, developed previously.
We suggest that Coats' telangiectasis is secondary to somatic mutation in the NDP gene which results in a deficiency of norrin (the protein product of the NDP gene) within the developing retina.
For individuals with EA-2, the mutations described thus far are presumed to result in a truncated protein product.
Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is a hereditary tumor syndrome characterized by predisposition for bilateral and multi-centric hemangioblastoma in the retina and central nervous system, pheochromocytoma, renal cell carcinoma, and cysts in the kidney, pancreas, and epididymis.
We speculate that emerin contributes to maintain the nuclear structure and stability, as well as nuclear functions, particularly in muscle tissues that have severe stress with rigorous contraction-relaxation movements and calcium flux..
The identification of common BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations will facilitate carrier detection in French Canadian breast cancer and breast/ovarian cancer families..
These rearrangements were initially revealed by analyzing cDNAs and could not have been identified by using mutation detection methods that screened each exon individually.
Our findings suggest that subtle differences in the course of the neurodegeneration in HD may allow interacting genes to exert gender specific effects upon AO..
Using these methods, we report striking linkage disequilibrium for diastrophic dysplasia (DTD) in Finland indicating that the DTD gene should lie within 0.06 centimorgans (or about 60 kilobases) of the CSF1R gene.
We report here the linkage relationship of the myotonic dystrophy (DM) locus to twelve of these markers as studied in 45 families with DM.
Our data support the previously established observation that families with a germline deletion have a low risk for pheochromocytoma.
Here we report that the human Cds1 kinase (hCds1/Chk2) regulates BRCA1 function after DNA damage by phosphorylating serine 988 of BRCA1.
Moreover, targeted mutagenesis of mouse homologues of the human candidate PWS genes does not appear to result in any of the features of PWS.
HPRT-deficient mice generated using mouse embryonic stem cells exhibit none of the behavioral symptoms associated with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.
The study group consisted of 66 Polish families with cancer who have at least three related females affected with breast or ovarian cancer and who had cancer diagnosed, in at least one of the three affected females, at age <50 years.
RESULTS: A homozygous G to A transition at the 5' end of intron 7 was detected in the patient.
It is invariably associated with a severe phenotype.
IFN-alpha also induced MEFV expression.
beta-Glucuronidase activity was undetectable in affected cat fibroblasts and restored by retroviral gene transfer of rat beta-glucuronidase cDNA.
van der Woude syndrome (vWS, MIM 119300) is a rare autosomal dominant clefting condition with cardinal features of mucous cysts (lower-lip pits) and clefts to the lip and/or palate.
Mutations at the ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) locus on chromosome band 11q22 cause a distinctive autosomal recessive syndrome in homozygotes and predispose heterozygotes to cancer, ischemic heart disease, and early mortality.
Complexes containing ATM and NBS1 exist in vivo in both untreated cells and cells treated with ionizing radiation.
The deletion chromosome has acquired a maternal methylation imprint in his somatic cells.
To date, its diagnosis, which can be made only retrospectively, is one of exclusion, based entirely on nonspecific clinical signs that result from serosal inflammation and that may lead to unnecessary surgery.
Resequencing of the GK gene in family members led to the discovery of a N288D missense mutation in exon 10, which resulted in the substitution of a highly conserved asparagine residue by a negatively charged aspartic acid.
Three BRCA1 abnormalities-5382insC, C61G, and 4153delA-accounted for 51%, 20%, and 11% of the identified mutations, respectively..
Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the FRDA gene that encodes a 210-amino acid protein called frataxin.
Analysis of the prevalence of the various mutations among DPD patients has shown that the G-->A point mutation in the invariant splice donor site is by far the most common (52%), whereas the other six mutations are less frequently observed.
The sample sizes were large enough for statistical testing in four groups with at least one mutation that completely abolishes enzyme activity.
STUDY DESIGN: One hundred twenty-two patients with CHH were identified through 2 countrywide epidemiologic surveys in 1974 and in 1986.
We discuss these findings in the context of the hypothesis that abnormal development of Purkinje cells and lymphocytes contributes to the pathogenesis of A-T..
Three other peroxisomal ABC transporters currently are known: adrenoleukodystrophy-related protein (ALDRP), 70 kDa peroxisomal membrane protein (PMP70) and PMP70- related protein.
OBJECTIVE: To monitor the effects of dietary treatment in adult-onset adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) by means of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and motor evoked potentials MEPs.
The C282Y mutation occurs on a haplotype that extends </=6 Mb, suggesting that this mutation has arisen during the past 2,000 years.
We have made identical findings in chimaeric mice generated from two independent embryonic stem (ES) cell lines harbouring a similar deletion.
To determine the frequency and nature of constitutional RB1-gene mutations in patients with isolated unilateral retinoblastoma, we analyzed DNA from peripheral blood and from tumor tissue.
Our findings also indicate a new mechanism for disease severity: if a broader spectrum of mutations is selected in tumors, the somatic mutation rate is effectively higher and more tumors grow..
This family study provides further support for the proposal that C3 deficiency predisposes to nephritis..
Previous characterization of a mutant form of HPRT, HPRTYale, from a subject with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome revealed normal mRNA and protein concentrations, no residual catalytic activity, and cathodal migration upon PAGE.
The hemochromatosis gene, HFE, recently has been identified, and characterization of this gene has shown that it contains two mutations that result in amino acid substitutions-cDNA nucleotides 845 G--A (C282Y) and 187 C--G H63D.
To test this hypothesis, we have conducted linkage analysis in a large Brazilian kindred with VWS, considering as affected the individuals with CP, regardless of whether it is associated with other clinical signs of VWS.
A 40-year-old man with childhood-onset Tourette syndrome (TS) developed Huntington disease HD.
Linkage analysis of the data from 12 microsatellite markers surrounding the Xp21.3 GK gene resulted in a peak LOD score of 3.46, centered around marker DXS8039.
We hypothesize that structural rearrangement of 14q is directly related to abnormal growth of lymphocytes and that it may be a step toward the development of lymphoid malignancies.
Although we found no FEN1 mutations, a frameshift mutation in MSH3 was observed in an endometrial carcinoma and in an endometrial carcinoma cell line.
The known Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene products, the muscle- and brain-type dystrophin isoforms, are 427-kDa proteins translated from 14-kilobase (kb) mRNAs.
The mean survival and height distribution of 134 A-T patients correlated significantly with the specific mutations present in the patients.
Phenylketonuria (PKU), a disorder of amino acid metabolism prevalent among Caucasians and other ethnic groups, is caused primarily by a deficiency of the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
The Rho-family GTPase, Cdc42, can regulate the actin cytoskeleton through activation of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) family members.
Carriers identified in this manner produced affected kittens in prospective breedings, and a feline MPS VII breeding colony has been established..
No linkage for C5 deficiency and the A or B loci of the major histocompatibility complex could be found.
Carriers of G6PD deficiency are residents of 11 villages located in Alasani-Aphtalan valley, highly endemic with malaria in the past; nearly all marriages are endogamic.
We report on a thrombocytopenic female belonging to a pedigree with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome WAS.
In the study reported here we describe PAX6 mutations in one sporadic and five familial cases with aniridia.
Counselling was given for a recessive disorder, thereby considerably reducing the probability of affected offspring.
Mutational analysis revealed absence of M694V homozygosity, P < 0.01, compared to our regular FMF population.
An abbreviated Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Revised (WAIS-R) was used to assess verbal and arithmetical cognitive performance in 55 subjects with myotonic dystrophy (DM), covering all grades of disease severity, and 31 controls at 50% risk of inheriting DM.
Mutations in the glycine decarboxylase gene (GLDC) cause nonketotic hyperglycinemia (NKH), an in-born error of metabolism characterized by severe neurological disturbance.
In four families, partial deletions of one or more exons were detected by Southern blot analysis.
RESULTS: Before treatment, brain MRI was normal in five patients.
Studies of immune function including immunoglobulin levels and T-cell subsets were normal.
During GH treatment, resting ventilation increased by 26%, P(0.1) by 72% and the response to CO(2) by 65% P Y 0.002, <0.04 and <0.02, respectively.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is caused by defects in the WAS protein (WASP) gene on the X chromosome.
A previously described 28-bp deletion at the COL2A1 exon 12-intron 12 junction, deleting the splice donor site, was identified in the fifth case.
Brain and heart transcripts of the DM-kinase (DMR-B15) gene are subject to alternative RNA splicing in both human and mouse.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), the most common of the inherited ataxias, is an autosomal recessive degenerative disorder, characterized clinically by onset before the age of 25 of progressive gait and limb ataxia, absence of deep tendon reflexes, extensor plantar responses, and loss of position and vibration sense in the lower limbs.
An exception is BRCA1, which contributes to a significant fraction of familial breast and ovarian cancer, but undergoes mutation at very low rates in sporadic breast and ovarian cancers.
In this study, we quantified the mRNA level of GCH1 in phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated mononuclear blood cells from one Japanese family that do not have a mutation in the coding region or splice junctions of the gene.
The heterozygous family members did not have the ALPS phenotype, indicating that the disease-causing FAS mutation in this family is autosomal recessive..
Abnormal amplification of a CTG repeat on chromosome 19 is the molecular basis of myotonic dystrophy DM.
Studies were performed on seven members (four clinically affected) of the family.
One possible explanation for our finding is an altered alpha-/beta(1)-subunit association in the mutant..
To clarify whether colchicine is excreted in breast milk, and to compare its concentrations in the serum and breast milk of lactating women who have familial Mediterranean fever FMF.
Based on this idea, DNAs isolated from gastric cancers were examined by means of a RNase protection analysis coupled with polymerase chain reaction followed by sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction products.
An additional blood sample was obtained from this individual to determine if he possessed any of the known CYP2C9 or CYP2C19 allelic variants that would account for his poor clearance of the CYP2C9 substrates (phenytoin and glipizide) compared with the CYP3A4 (nifedipine) and CYP2D6 (chlorpheniramine) substrates.
The osteolytic lesions, which develop usually in the long bones during early adulthood, show increased osteoblast and osteoclast activity.
Interestingly, the I1307K APC polymorphism, associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer, is also present in this family.
These results establish a molecular link between HFE and a key protein involved in iron transport, the TfR, and raise the possibility that alterations in this regulatory mechanism may play a role in the pathogenesis of hereditary hemochromatosis..
PEX1 mutations were detected in all four patients, including a 1-bp insertion (c.2097insT) in exon 13 that was present in three of the four patients.
These results suggest that some novel mutations should exist on one of the alleles in some unknown region of the GCH1 gene, and may decrease the GCH1 mRNA causing the HPD/DRD symptoms..
The odds of detection of any of the four BRCA1 mutations was 18.7x greater if one or more cases of ovarian cancer were also present in the family.
The location of the germ-line mutations seems to correlate with the two clinical types; germ-line mutations in five FAP patients with profuse polyps were observed between codon 1250 and codon 1464, whereas mutations in 17 FAP patients with fewer polyps were observed in the other regions of the APC gene.
(4) G6PD Betica, which is the most frequent variant found in subjects of Southern Spanish origin, has been observed associated with favism in all cases except one..
RESULTS: Our study should have been able to detect a 4-5-fold increase in the risk of prostate cancer due to mutation of BRCA1 or BRCA2.
Nevertheless, E148Q helps account for recessive inheritance in an Ashkenazi family previously reported as an unusual case of dominantly inherited FMF.
Meningococcal disease is endemic in the Cape and almost all pedigrees of total C6 deficiency (C6Q0) have been ascertained because of recurrent disease.
To facilitate our understanding of the normal function of MEFV, we extended our previous studies.
These alterations predict the replacement of a proline residue at position 183 with either a histidine or a threonine.
Germ-line mutations of the tumor suppressor APC are implicated in attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli (AAPC), a variant of familial adenomatous polyposis FAP.
This change generates an early termination codon 6 bp downstream from the insertion site.
The mutation was located in the 10th transmembrane helix.
Chromosomal studies were performed on peripheral blood lymphocytes and cultured skin fibroblasts from five Israeli-Moroccan families with ataxia-telangiectasia.
The main symptom is progressive mental retardation.
Females with moderate or mild PKU who were treated early and treated for >6 years showed IQ scores 10 points above average for their group.
By using transient and stable overexpression of human cDNAs encoding ALDP and its closest relative ALDRP, we could restore the impaired peroxisomal beta-oxidation in fibroblasts of X-ALD patients.
The c862t (R279W) transition is the most common mutation in non-Finnish patients, but in these disorders it is usually combined with other DTDST mutations.
By contrast, no such relationship could be discerned between laboratory phenotype and polymorphism genotype..
Mutations at the hexosaminidase A (HEXA) gene which cause Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) have elevated frequency in the Ashkenazi Jewish and French-Canadian populations.
The serum of a 44-yr-old woman of French-Canadian descent having a B-27 positive ankylosing spondylitis was deficient in the seventh component of complement (C7) as determined by hemolytic and immunochemical methods.
By use of chemical cleavage of mismatches adapted to fluorescence-based detection systems, we have characterized the mutations underlying alpha-Gal A deficiency in 16 individuals from six unrelated families with FD.
We found nuclear LEF-1 in the dividing tumour cells, providing biochemical evidence that pilomatricomas are derived from hair matrix cells.
The recent discovery of the gene that is mutated in this condition, FRDA, has led to rapid advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis of Friedreich ataxia.
We show that organs which develop pathologic changes in the Atm-deficient mice are targets of oxidative damage, and that cerebellar Purkinje cells are particularly affected.
Before leukemia was diagnosed, the patient had a lymphocyte clone with a 14q translocation.
Mutations identified in this study include 19 missense mutations, two nonsense mutations, one intragenic deletion, four microdeletions, one insertion, and one intronic sequence substitution that is likely to result in a splice site defect.
These data show that 'intrinsically unstructured' peptides such as the GTPase-binding domain of WASP can be induced into distinct structural and functional states depending on context..
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) and Angelman syndrome (AS) are distinct neurobehavioral disorders that most often arise from a 4-Mb deletion of chromosome 15q11-q13 during paternal or maternal gametogenesis, respectively.
Although a genotype-phenotype correlation between the locations of APC germline mutations and the development of AFAP has been well documented, the mechanism for AFAP has not been well defined.
The PTS1R cDNA also complements the PTS1 protein-import defect in skin fibroblasts from patients--belonging to complementation group two--diagnosed as having neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy or Zellweger syndrome.
In contrast, mutant APC gene products that are associated with attenuated polyposis (codon 386 or 1465) interfered only weakly with wild-type APC activity.
In this study, further segregation analysis has been performed using a newly identified WAS family as well as an additional marker probe, HOATL1.
It is likely that the X-derived sequence GGAATCA has been lost in the formation of the der(X) chromosome, as it matches an inverted GAATCA sequence present on the opposite strand exactly at the other end of the deleted 5-kb fragment.
A few other patients and families with features similar to our proband have been described previously and considered to have autosomal recessive MED EDM4, McKusick 226900.
We have analysed 60 families with a history of breast and/or ovarian cancer for germline mutations in BRCA1.
Since continuing advances in molecular methodologies have dramatically accelerated the rate in which new mutations are being identified and characterized, this register of mutations will be updated periodically..
Affected human tissues are rarely available to further examine this hypothesis.
Thus, it appears that severe G6PD deficiency affects adversely the proliferation or the survival of nucleated blood cells and that this phenotypic characteristic is critical during hematopoiesis..
The subjects were followed for up to four years.
We have confirmed that germline mutations in the CDH1 gene cause familial gastric cancer in non-Maori populations.
The puzzling linkage between genetic hemochromatosis and histocompatibility loci became even more so when the gene involved, HFE, was identified.
The inactivation of the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene predisposes affected individuals to the human VHL cancer syndrome and is associated with sporadic renal cell carcinomas (RCC) and brain hemangioblastomas.
We report here a newly identified HPRT mutation in a Japanese patient with Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.
On the other hand, hereditary mutations of TP57KIP2, P15INK4B, and P16INK4A, which affect the cell cycle similar to TP53, were observed in some types of cancer.
Using a transgenic DMPK-overexpressor mouse model, we demonstrate here that the endogenous mouse DMPK gene and the human DMPK transgene produce six major alternatively spliced mRNAs which have almost identical cell type-dependent distribution frequencies and expression patterns.
Pendred syndrome is the most common form of syndromic deafness and characterized by congenital sensorineural hearing loss and goitre.
These results show that the former five mutations account for more than 90% of G6PD deficiency cases in Taiwan.
Two distinct loci have been proposed for aniridia; AN1 for autosomal dominant aniridia on chromosome 2p and AN2 for the aniridia in the WAGR contiguous gene syndrome on chromosome 11p13.
A single base pair insertion at nucleotide position 821 in exon 6 resulted in the generation of a premature stop codon in the last patient.
We conclude this single-base deletion causes defective Kx protein, which is responsible for the McLeod phenotype in this patient..
Two products shorter than the wild-type product were amplified.
We have generated a mouse model for ataxia-telangiectasia by using gene targeting to generate mice that do not express the Atm protein.
In addition the analysis revealed 5 polymorphisms useful for internal control..
In ten independent cases of Denys-Drash syndrome, point mutations in the zinc finger domains of one WT1 gene copy were found.
The 1376 G----T mutation seems to be the dominant allele that causes G6PD deficiency in Taiwan.
Deletion of the SNRPN promoter/exon 1 region (the PWS IC element) appears to impair the establishment of the paternal imprint in the male germ line and leads to PWS.
In the first family, the extra copy was first detected by the presence of heterozygosity of the AhaII dimorphism within the PLP gene.
This approach now allows HPRT mutation detection in 50 percent of the cases of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.
The disease locus was assigned to chromosome 9 and the disease gene, STM7/X25, has been isolated.
The levels of p19/nm23 were compared between resting and mitotically stimulated normal human PBLs and in leukemia cells.
Recent findings of a nonsense mutation in the rd mouse PDE beta-subunit gene (Pdeb) prompted us to investigate the chromosome locations of the mouse and human genes.
A survey instrument is used to assess temperature regulation characteristics in children with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) compared to 3 control groups: sibs of PWS patients (SIB), neurodevelopmentally handicapped children (ND), and age and gender matched well children WC.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) and mild hyperphenylalaninemia (MHP) are allelic disorders caused by mutations in the gene encoding phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
In the 14 later patients, we identified truncating mutations in 9 patients (64%) using PTT only.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether hereditary ovarian cancers have distinct clinical and pathological features compared with sporadic (nonhereditary) ovarian cancers.
As part of a strategy to clone the HD gene on the basis of its chromosomal location, we isolated genomic DNA from the HD region as a set of overlapping yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) clones.
Apparent compensatory mechanisms which come into play when serum albumin is low include prolonged half-life of albumin and transferrin, an increase in serum globulins, beta lipoprotein, and glycoproteins, arterial hypotension with reduced capillary hydrostatic pressure, and the ability to respond with rapid sodium and chloride diuresis in response to small volume changes.
We studied cultured skin fibroblasts from 2 brothers with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease who exhibited no detectable exonic mutation of the PLP gene.
Previous analyses have revealed that the pattern of germline mutations in the factor IX gene (F9) is similar among a variety of ethnically and geographically diverse populations and compatible with the ancient pattern that has shaped the mammalian genome.
The resultant PAX3-FKHR gene possesses transforming properties; however, the effects of this chimeric oncogene on gene expression are largely unknown.
Using an immunocytochemical technique on blood smears, we recently developed a novel test for identification of patients with fragile X syndrome.
We previously identified the first causative mutations in a nonconsanguineous Swiss family; the 4 affected persons have homozygous deletions of approximately 11 kb of the fibrinogen alpha (FGA) gene.
In contrast, WT1 missense mutations, associated with male pseudohermaphroditism in Denys-Drash syndrome, fail to synergize with SF-1.
Examination on G6PD deficiency in 349 patients of Shekii district hospital (Azerbaijan) revealed 16 hemi-, 4 homo- and 9 heterozygotic carriers of the defect.
This suggests that pendrin in fact may not be a sulfate transporter, and emphasizes the importance of functional studies on this novel protein..
The analysis of diseases linked specifically with WT1 mutations, such as Denys-Drash syndrome (DDS), can provide valuable insight concerning the role of WT1 in development and disease.
No protein was detected in two individuals with severe WAS.
We found that the immune-labeled colloidal gold particles were localized on the nucleoplasmic surface of the inner nuclear membrane, but not on the nuclear pore.
Thus, CDH1 should be investigated as a cause of inherited susceptibility to both gastric and colorectal cancers..
It lacks the entire large domain of spectrin-like repeats and the actin-binding N-terminal domain of dystrophin.
Indeed, a six-marker haplotype extending over a region of 5.5 cM was observed in all families.
This first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete C9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial, especially neisserial, infections..
The mutation can be assayed easily by amplification and digestion with Msel.
Nineteen of the missense mutations resulted in a severe reduction of FALDH enzyme catalytic activity when expressed in mammalian cells, but one mutation 798G-->C K266N seemed to have a greater effect on mRNA stability.
Although patients with the N288D mutation suffered from severe hyperglycerolemia, they were apparently otherwise healthy.
A total of 2,952 single sperm from the six donors were analyzed.
Patients present with partial, then generalized seizures, with onset at age three months.
However, because effective treatments should begin before the onset of severe neurologic symptoms, SEPs and MEPs should be considered to evaluate the effectiveness of other experimental treatments in the patient with a negative brain MRI..
METHODS: We examined genomic DNA from 83 (for BRCA1 185delAG) or 82 (for BRCA2 6174delT) Ashkenazi Jewish prostate cancer patients, most of whom were treated at a relatively young age, for the most common germline mutation in each gene seen in the Ashkenazi population.
In 28 families with G6PD deficiency living in 3 settlements of Shekii district of Azerbaijan 11 G6PD variants of II and III classes differing by kinetic properties were identified according WHO program. 9 of them are characterized with the same electrophoretic mobility.
The majority (81%) of the breast-ovarian cancer families were due to BRCA1, with most others (14%) due to BRCA2.
An unexpectedly low proportion of the breast-ovarian cancer families were estimated to be linked to BRCA1, which could be due to a founder effect in the Dutch population.
Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a common autosomal recessive disorder characterized by tissue iron deposition secondary to excessive dietary iron absorption.
Using similar methods, we now find that C5 deficiency in each of five different mouse strains (AKR, SWR, DBA/2J8 A/HeJ and B10.D2/old line) is due to a failure in secretion of C5 protein and not to a failure in biosynthesis of pro-C5..
Molecular, kinetic, and functional studies were carried out on erythrocytes and leukocytes in a Spanish male with G6PD deficiency, congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA), and increased susceptibility to infections.
Here we describe two new families in which males affected with PMD were found to have a copy of PLP on the short arm of the X chromosome, in addition to a normal copy on Xq22.
Aside from showing that G to T change at nt 1376 is the most common mutation, our research indicates that nt 493 mutation is a frequent mutation among Chinese in Taiwan.
These intersex differences in colorectal cancer risks have implications for screening programmes and for attempts to identify colorectal cancer susceptibility modifiers..
This study utilizes cDNA microarrays to elucidate the pattern of gene expression induced by an oncogenic transcription factor and demonstrates the profound myogenic properties of PAX3-FKHR in NIH 3T3 cells..
Electrophoresis of cell extracts revealed the absence of the A form of acid lipase, consistent with the diagnosis of Wolman disease.
Attempts to define the clinical significance of BRCA mutation status in ovarian cancer have produced conflicting results, especially regarding survival.
CONCLUSIONS: It is suggested that coexpression of hbeta(1) exposes a more severe functional defect that results in a greater overlap in the relationship between channel inactivation and activation (window current) in T1620M, which is proposed to be a potential pathophysiological mechanism of IVF in vivo.
The mother, who has aniridia, was also found to carry a deletion including both the aniridia candidate gene (AN2) and the Wilms tumor predisposition gene WT1.
Mechanisms by which abnormal sulfate transport could deleteriously affect iodide organification have been proposed.
An mRNA-containing extract of cultured fibroblasts obtained from one of the probands was used as a template to amplify the coding sequence of the hexosaminidase A (Hex A) alpha-subunit.
Mutations of APC appear to initiate sporadic and inherited forms of human colorectal cancer.
Complex formation induces the rapid degradation of betacatenin.
Classical Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an autosomal recessive human genetic disorder caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
Familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (FNDI) is an inherited deficiency of the hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP) and is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
METHODS: An alteration in CYP27 of the proband was searched for by polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analysis and subsequent sequencing.
The differential diagnosis of the genetic bleeding disorders, hemophilia A and von Willebrand disease, is occasionally confounded by the close molecular relationship of coagulation factor VIII and von Willebrand factor vWF.
By use of this strategy, carrier status was accurately assessed in all seven at-risk females tested, whereas enzymatic dosages failed to diagnose or exclude heterozygosity..
In addition, we isolated the ends of the human DNA inserts of most of the YAC clones to assist in the construction of the contig.
We have retrospectively analyzed 837 random anonymized dried blood spot (DBS) samples from neonatal screening programs in Scandinavia for mutations in HFE, the candidate gene for hemochromatosis.
In addition to loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at the APC locus in 30 tumors, 43 other somatic mutations were detected.
Recently, mutations of the cathepsin C gene have been identified as the underlying genetic defect in PLS.
He also has a defect of the anterior midline scalp with involvement of the frontal bone as documented by a computed tomography (CT) scan.
Two siblings with chronic discoid lupus erythematosus and several family members were found with heterozygous C2 deficiency.
To compare somatic and germline mutations, we used the VHL database, which includes 507 mutations.
To identify additional imprinted genes that could contribute to the PWS phenotype and to understand the regional control of imprinting in 15q11-q13, we have constructed an imprinted transcript map of the PWS-AS deletion interval.
A gene mutated in the human genetic disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), ATM, was recently identified by positional cloning.
These results provide further evidence that inherited breast and ovarian cancer can occur as a consequence of a wide array of BRCA1 mutations.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the relationship of phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) genotypes to biochemical phenotype and cognitive development in maternal phenylketonuria PKU.
Skin was seborrhoeic in adolescent and adult patients, with erythema of the facial skin already common in childhood.
Mutant proteins, except for C79S and C79T, were destabilized and detected as insoluble precursor forms while the C79S and C79T mutants were of a soluble mature size.
METHODS: Ten patients with XLRS underwent full ophthalmologic examination, including slitlamp biomicroscopy and dilated funduscopy.
Those who were untreated or treated late had lower than average IQ scores for their group of mutation combinations.
Because LpA-I has been proposed to be more protective than LpA-I:A-II against atherosclerosis, this selective effect on the metabolism of LpA-I:A-II may provide a potential explanation why patients with classic LCAT deficiency and Fish-eye disease are not at increased risk for premature atherosclerosis despite markedly decreased levels of HDL cholesterol and apoA-I..
In patients with fragile X syndrome, the expanded CGG triplet repeats are hypermethylated and the expression of the FMR1 gene is repressed, which leads to the absence of FMR1 protein (FMRP) and subsequent mental retardation.
Twenty-three different mutations including 12 novel ones were identified in 28 patients.
Thus, the occurrence of sensorineural deafness in this patient extends considerably the phenotypic range of piebaldism due to KIT gene mutation in humans and tightens the clinical similarity between piebaldism and the various forms of Waardenburg syndrome..
The clinical significance of this second mutation is such that it appears to predispose 1%-2% of compound heterozygotes to expression of the disease.
However, in a small subset of hemizygous males who suffer from chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia, the underlying mutations (designated class I) cause more-severe G6PD deficiency, and this might provide an opportunity for selection in heterozygous females during development.
In this manuscript, we report the characterization of MAGEL2 and its mouse homologue Magel2.
The Arg610Gln mutation represents the first case of a mutation in the PH domain of the FGD1 gene and additional evidence that mutations in PH domains can be associated to human diseases..
Here we report in vivo evidence of impaired mitochondrial respiration in skeletal muscle of FRDA patients.
Even though we found no gross cerebellar degeneration in older Atm(y/y) animals, ectopic and abnormally differentiated Purkinje cells were apparent in mutant mice of all ages.
CONCLUSIONS: DCC is a prognostic marker in patients with stage II or stage III colorectal cancer.
A translocation involving 14q was found in clones obtained from seven of the eight patients whereas a ring 14 chromosome was found in a clone obtained from the other.
Sequencing of exon 3 of the beta-catenin gene (CTNNB1) revealed an activating mutation in one of the tumor samples.
A maximum two-point lod score of 7.13 (theta = 0.00) for marker D2S2110 and a maximum cumulative multipoint lod score of 9.16 for marker D2S2110 were observed, further supporting linkage to chromosome 2p13.
To evaluate the role of the HMG I-C component, the three DNA-binding domains of HMG I-C have now been expressed in transgenic mice.
Pendred syndrome is a recessive inherited disorder that consists of developmental abnormalities of the cochlea, sensorineural hearing loss, and diffuse thyroid enlargement goiter.
We report on the first patient identified with myotonic dystrophy and Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
We identified five additional copies of the LCR22 on 22q11 that may mediate other rearrangements leading to disease..
We were unable to find a mutation in one patient despite complete sequencing of the genomic sequence of the gene.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is a recessively inherited disorder that is common in patients of Armenian ancestry.
For both sexes combined, the penetrances at age 60 years for all cancers and for colorectal cancer were 0.86 and 0.57, respectively.
To support this idea further, we identified a family that carries an interstitial duplication of the same 3 Mb region that is deleted in VCFS/DGS patients.
In humans, alteration of the tumor suppressor gene, APC, causes adenomatous polyposis coli, a condition causing predisposition to colorectal cancer.
The gene responsible for Huntington disease has been localized to a 2.5 million base pair (Mb) region between the loci D4S10 and D4S168 on the short arm of chromosome 4.
APC is not, therefore, a classical tumor suppressor.
We studied the relationship between the autosomal recessive trait familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) and the serum amyloid A (SAA) genes by comparing alleles of a highly polymorphic dinucleotide repeat and a conventional restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) in the SAA gene cluster in Israeli FMF kindreds.
We therefore hypothesized that A-T is due to oxidative damage resulting from loss of function of the A-T gene product.
Our results suggest that a gene at 17p11.2-11.1, together with the VWS gene at 1p32-41, enhances the probability of CP in an individual carrying the two at-risk genes.
In two of these families we used a functional assay to demonstrate an almost total loss of cathepsin C activity in PLS patients and reduced activity in obligate carriers..
We performed direct sequencing of the PCR products of each NIS (sodium/iodide symporter) gene exon with flanking introns amplified from genomic DNA extracted from peripheral blood cells of the patients.
Linkage studies using restriction fragment length polymorphisms were conducted in the X-linked disorder, choroideremia, designated TCD for Progressive Tapeto-Choroidal Dystrophy.
We have identified a male patient with BFLS-like features and a duplication, 46,Y,dup X (q26q28), inherited from his phenotypically normal mother.
Nevertheless, the above DGGE approach has incidentally led to the identification of a common polymorphism in exon 13.
These data suggest that BRCA1 is important for the cellular responses to DNA damage that are mediated by the hRad50-hMre11-p95 complex..
We present a child in whom phenylketonuria was apparently caused by homozygosity for the mutation E390G in exon 11 of the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) gene.
Expression of recombinant forms of the mutant RANK proteins revealed perturbations in expression levels and lack of normal cleavage of the signal peptide.
These results show that formation of preassociated receptor complexes is necessary for Fas signaling and dominant interference in human disease..
These results provide evidence that the DM mutation acts in cis to reduce protein production (consistent with DMPK haploinsufficiency) and in trans as a 'riboregulator' to inhibit myogenesis..
We also suggest that C9 deficiency may be more common among Caucasians than has been reported..
Our results provide evidence of a direct role for WT1 in Denys-Drash syndrome and thus urogenital system development..
Our findings revealed the following characteristics of the germ-line mutations of APC: 1 the great majority of the mutations were found to truncate the APC product; 2 almost all of the mutations were located within the first half of the coding region; 3 no correlation was observed between the locations of germ-line mutations and extracolonic manifestations in FAP patients; 4 more than 80% of base substitutions in the APC gene were from cytosine to other nucleotides, nearly one-third of which occurred at the GpG site.
We performed a sperm typing study of five MJD patients of French descent and analysis of the pooled data shows a ratio of mutant to normal alleles of 379:436 (46.5:53.5%), which does not support meiotic segregation distortion.
We also report a mutation of the same exon 6 CTSC codon (2126C-->T) in a Turkish family with classical PLS.
CETP deficiency appears to be a frequent cause of increased HDL levels in the population of Japan, possibly because of a founder effect.
A variant of FAP is attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli, which results from germ-line mutations in the 5' and 3' regions of the APC gene.
We have used single strand conformation polymorphism analysis to study the 27 exons of the RB1 gene in individuals from a family showing 'mild' expression of the retinoblastoma phenotype.
Clues from attenuated polyposis, missense germline variants with mild disease and the somatic mutation cluster region (codons 1,250-1,450) indicate, however, that APC mutations might not result in simple loss of protein function.
A total of 84 different mutations were detected, and complete genotype was obtained in 199 individuals.
The proband was found to carry the duplication, thus confirming the diagnosis of Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease, but neither the aunt nor the fetus carried a duplication..
Chediak-Higashi syndrome (CHS) is an inherited disorder caused by mutations in the lysosomal trafficking regulator gene, LYST.
The phenotypic analysis of the family members, however, showed that glycerol levels correlated with impaired glucose metabolism and body-fat distribution.
Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) belongs to a group of clinically and genetically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia.
Parental consanguinity is a characteristic of many cases of both conditions.
The oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe (OCRL) is an X-linked disorder characterized by major abnormalities of eyes, nervous system, and kidneys.
Deletions and other abnormalities of human chromosome 15q11-q13 are associated with two developmental disorders, Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) and Angelman syndrome AS.
Their parents and nonaffected siblings were identified through the Population Register Center.
Furthermore, mutations in the PMP70 gene have also been identified in two Zellweger syndrome patients from CG1, raising the possibility that CG1 patients may represent a mixture of PEX1-deficient and PMP70-deficient individuals.
We have identified WASP, the protein that is defective in Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), as a novel effector for CDC42Hs, but not for the other Rho family members, Rac and Rho.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM), the most prevalent muscular disorder in adults, is caused by (CTG)n-repeat expansion in a gene encoding a protein kinase (DM protein kinase; DMPK) and involves changes in cytoarchitecture and ion homeostasis.
These results suggest that the HFE gene has been the subject of selection pressure.
Of these four rearrangements, one resulted in the deletion of exons 11 and 12 and two others resulted in either complete or partial deletion of exon 14.
CONCLUSION: The mutation at splice donor site and the truncation of mRNA were identical with those of a recently reported Italian patient, although different in symptomatology.
Fragile X syndrome, a common form of inherited mental retardation, is mainly caused by massive expansion of CGG triplet repeats located in the 5'-untranslated region of the fragile X mental retardation-1 ( FMR1 ) gene.
We performed two-point and multipoint limit of detection (LOD) score analyses using a high penetrance autosomal dominant model.
In a South African girl of Xhosa stock with severe piebaldism and profound congenital sensorineural deafness we identified a novel missense substitution at a highly conserved residue in the intracellular kinase domain of the KIT proto-oncogene, R796G.
In a proportion of GH patients, two mutations are present, C282Y and H63D.
This results in the fusion of PAX3, a developmental transcription factor required for limb myogenesis, with FKHR, a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors.
One hundred and twenty-six W27-negative controls matched for race, sex, and age failed to yield a single case.
The hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene, BRCA1, encodes a large polypeptide that contains the cysteine-rich RING motif, a zinc-binding domain found in a variety of regulatory proteins.
A 50-year-old man showed progressive muscular atrophy, choreic movement, elevated level of serum creatinine kinase, and acanthocytosis.
Twenty-five first-degree relatives with ankylosing spondylitis were all B27 positive.
It mainly involves the nervous system white matter, adrenal cortex and testes.
Subsequent studies demonstrated that this mutation is present in one-half of all CG1 patients and correlates with the Zellweger syndrome phenotype.
DTD is caused by mutations in the recently identified diastrophic dysplasia sulfate-transporter gene DTDST.
After treatment, the three patients with pure spinal abnormalities showed clinical and neurophysiologic worsening, whereas the two patients with a more advanced stage of disease (exhibited by SEPs) showed substantially unchanged clinical and neurophysiologic features.
To characterize the functional and structural properties of the COLIA1/PDGFB fusion protein, we generated a stable NIH3T3 cell line that contained a tumor-derived chimeric gene resulting from a COIA1 intron 7-PDGFB intron 1 fusion.
Hereditary coproporphyria (HCP) is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by a deficiency of coproporphyrinogen oxidase (CPO) caused by a mutation in the CPO gene.
The innermost four markers were found to be tightly linked to one another, with no evidence for recombination.
As a step toward understanding the function of FMR1 and the determination of the potential for therapeutic approaches to fragile X syndrome, yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) transgenic mice were generated in order to determine whether the Fmr1 knockout mouse phenotype could be rescued.
The normal botrocetin-induced binding and the defective ristocetin-induced binding of rvWF(G561S) suggest that the primary defect in von Willebrand disease type B may be a failure of normal allosteric regulation of the glycoprotein Ib binding function of vWF..
These findings have significant implications for gene therapy for fragile X syndrome since overexpression of the gene may harbor its own phenotype..
We have identified a Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) pedigree where the disease is associated with a molecular deletion within the DMD locus.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze Japanese patients clinically diagnosed as having XLRS formutational changes in the XLRS1 gene.
BRCA1 contains a carboxyl-terminal domain (BRCT) that is shared with several other proteins involved in maintaining genome integrity.
Leu-AVP was a weak agonist with approximately 30-fold reduced binding to the human V2 receptor.
Index cases for the present study were found two different ways: through a series of consecutive ovarian cancers (n=16) and through our family cancer clinic n=14.
Point mutations were scattered along the coding sequence and included 15 nonsense, 15 frameshift, three splice site, two missense and one editing mutations.
The direct sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction-amplified product of reverse-transcribed HPRT mRNA enabled the rapid identification of the mutations found in 17 previously uncharacterized cell lines derived from patients with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome..
Finally, COLIA1/PDGFB-expressing cells generated tumors after s.c. injection into nude mice, and tumor growth was reduced by treatment with CGP57148B.
The predicted protein environment in which the mutation occurs is compared to that of the adult-onset Tay-Sachs disease mutation caused by a Gly269-->Ser substitution in exon 7. ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS.
We present a review of the 23 published cases with this syndrome.
Of an expected 177 unknown mutations, we detected approximately 70%, mostly protein truncating mutations that would have been detectable by protein truncation testing if RNA starting material had been available.
Genetic inactivation of the yeast frataxin homologue (Yfh1p) results in mitochondrial iron accumulation and hypersensitivity to oxidative stress.
The same mutation has been reported previously in an unrelated family showing a significantly milder phenotype.
Studies of biopsied tissue for the presence of Epstein-Barr virus and cytomegalovirus were negative, as were studies of blood, including the polymerase chain reaction, for the presence of the human immunodeficiency virus HIV.
We describe a patient with typical clinical features of the fragile X syndrome, but without cytogenetic expression of the fragile X or an amplified CCG trinucleotide repeat fragment.
One patient was heterozygous for the previously identified deletion.
The boy's maternal aunt came for prenatal diagnosis when 16+ weeks pregnant and carrying a male fetus.
Another three affected males from the family had similar findings.
We observed a striking pattern of STR allele sharing at several closely linked loci among our four Caucasian VWS families recruited at three different locations in the US.
A chromosome 15 anomaly was observed in 12 of 20 patients, 17 of whom were clinically suspected of having Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
These observations provide a mechanistic basis for the A-T phenotype and lay a rational foundation for therapeutic intervention..
Furthermore, these results raise the possibility of a novel treatment regimen for muscular dystrophy and other diseases caused by premature stop codon mutations.
Subsequent reports in additional collections of families have yielded conflicting results.
This supports recent observations that the protein is critical for normal retinal vasculogenesis..
Reciprocal chromosome translocations are common de novo rearrangements that occur randomly throughout the human genome.
This localization makes Wasp a candidate for involvement in scurfy, a T cell-mediated fatal lymphoreticular disease of mice that has previously been proposed as a mouse homolog of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.
Titration of mYfh1p with increasing iron concentrations supports a stepwise mechanism of multimer assembly.
Variation in the antigen level of heterozygous relatives of probands was found to be significantly higher between families than within families, consistent with the view that the nature of the F10 lesion(s) segregating in a given family is a prime determinant of the laboratory phenotype.
Significant ALPS-related morbidity occurred in 44% of relatives with intracellular mutations, versus 0% of relatives with extracellular mutations.
Mutations in the COL3A1 gene have been implicated as a cause of type IV Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, a disease leading to aortic rupture in early adult life.
The identification of a mouse X-linked mutant showing muscular dystrophy, mdx, has provided a candidate mouse genetic homologue to the DMD locus; the relatively mild pathological features of mdx suggest it may have more in common with mutations of the Becker muscular dystrophy type at the same human locus, however.
BACKGROUND: Mutations in the gene encoding the human cardiac Na(+) channel alpha-subunit (hH1) are responsible for chromosome 3-linked congenital long-QT syndrome (LQT3) and idiopathic ventricular fibrillation IVF.
Gc-protein levels were normal in the patient and together with normal chromosomal banding studies make it unlikely that a chromosomal deletion caused analbuminemia.
These common mutations have an etiological role in many breast and ovarian cancer cases and provide the opportunity to examine genotype-phenotype correlations and genotype-environment interactions in individuals with the identical BRCA1 lesion.
To achieve this, we determined the prevalence of BRCA1 alterations in a population-based series of consecutive ovarian cancer cases.
The objective of this study was to provide more accurate frequency estimates of breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 ( BRCA1 ) germline alterations in the ovarian cancer population.
Ataxia-telangiectasia is a hereditary multisystemic disease resulting from mutations of ataxia telangiectasia, mutated (ATM) and is characterized by neurodegeneration, cancer, immune defects, and hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation.
All PLS patients were homozygous for cathepsin C mutations inherited from a common ancestor.
The introns (421 bp and 1.2 kb) encompass a 142-bp exon with the 2 polymorphic bases 2531 and 2532.
Several lines of evidence indicate reduced penetrance among Ashkenazi Jews, especially for E148Q, P369S, and K695R.
Patients with familial APC (FAP) carry germ-line mutations in the APC gene and develop multiple colorectal adenomas and subsequent carcinomas early in life.
The patients with G6PD Huron were under medical observation for a considerable period of time without the diagnosis of G6PD deficiency being entertained because the family was of Northern European origin.
Recently, a missense mutation was identified in human ASPA coding sequence from patients with Canavan disease.
We screened 31 new unrelated patients and families for XLRS1 mutations in addition to previously reported mutations for 60 of our families Retinoschisis Consortium, Hum Mol Genet 1998;7:1185-1192.
The results suggest that the two syndromes originate from the same WT1 gene abnormality.
Germline mutations of the Brca1 tumor suppressor gene predispose women to breast and ovarian cancers.
We conclude that CyS2010 is essential for normal dimerization of vWF subunits through disulfide bonding of carboxyl-terminal domains and that a heterozygous mutation in the corresponding codon is responsible for defective multimer formation in type III von Willebrand disease.
We have previously shown that human piebaldism results from mutations of the KIT gene, which encodes the receptor for the mast/stem cell growth factor and is located in chromosome segment 4q12.
The result suggests that the number of colorectal polyps in FAP patients may be associated with a difference in the stability or biological function of the truncated APC protein..
We conclude that 'spinal xanthomatosis' is a clinical and radiological separate entity of CTX that should be included in the differential diagnosis of 'chronic myelopathy'..
Fibroblasts from the patient's mother and father had 42 and 34%, respectively, of the activity of the lowest normal.
Exposure of mdx myotubes to gentamicin led to the expression and localization of dystrophin to the cell membrane.
Wolfram syndrome (WFS; OMIM 222300) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder defined by young-onset non-immune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and progressive optic atrophy.
Her fresh serum lacked complement-mediated bactericidal activity against Neisseria gonorrhoeae, but the addition of fresh normal serum or purified C7 restored bactericidal activity as well as hemolytic activity.
Twenty-two tumors had frameshift mutations due to deletion or insertion; nineteen of them were deletions of one to 31 bp and three were a 1-bp insertion.
The mutation introduces a termination codon within exon 8 of the dystrophin gene.
The association between normal alleles at the CTG repeat and two nearby polymorphisms in the myotonin protein kinase gene, the Alu insertion/deletion polymorphism and the myotonic dystrophy kinase DMK (G/T) intron 9/HinfI polymorphism, has been analyzed in South African Negroids, a population in which myotonic dystrophy (DM) has not been described.
This initial delineation of human mutations in VLCAD suggests that VLCAD deficiency reduces myocardial fatty acid beta-oxidation and energy production and is associated with cardiomyopathy and sudden death in childhood..
We have found C282Y allele frequencies of 2.3% (+2.0%) (-1.3%) in Greenland, 4.5%+/-1.9% in Iceland, 5.1%+/-2.3% in the Faeroe Islands, and 8.2%+/-2.7% in Denmark.
In order to demonstrate the effect of prophylactic colchicine treatment on the natural history of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF), a family is presented with 6 out of 9 siblings affected by FMF.
We recently showed that alkaptonuria (AKU) is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the homogentisate 1,2 dioxygenase gene HGO.
Both genes are intronless with tandem direct repeat sequences contained within a CpG island in the 5'-untranscribed region.
Twelve of the missense mutations apparently result from the methylation and subsequent deamination of highly mutagenic CpG dinucleotides.
Missense mutations were studied by means of molecular modelling, whereas single basepair substitutions in splice sites and the 5' flanking region were examined by in vitro splicing assay and luciferase reporter gene assay respectively.
The disease-causing mutation has recently been identified as an unstable and expanded (CAG)n trinucleotide repeat in a novel gene of unknown function.
While demonstration of alpha-galactosidase deficiency in leukocytes is diagnostic in affected males, enzymatic detection of female carriers is often inconclusive, due to random X-chromosomal inactivation, underlining the need of molecular investigations for accurate genetic counseling.
A wide spectrum of mutations, ranging from point mutations to large deletions, have been described in the retinoblastoma gene RB1.
The genetic basis of myotonic dystrophy (DM) is the expansion of an unstable CTG repeat in the 34 UTR of the DM protein kinase gene on chromosome 19.
In vitro expression of mutant cDNA clones demonstrated that all of these mutations led to a deficiency of ASPA and should therefore result in Canavan disease..
Our data further support the notion of molecular heterogeneity of galactosemia and suggest that galactosemia mutations and GALT polymorphisms may be useful tools in highlighting different functional domains in human GALT..
The prevalence was similar in both sexes.
Increased rates of chromosome damage were also observed in the fibroblasts of some phenotypically normal family members (obligate heterozygotes and sibs) when compared to normal controls.
The mutant DMPK messenger RNA (mRNA) contains an expanded CUG repeat and is retained in the nucleus.
In the present study, we have screened several individuals for mutations in all 47 exons in the CACNA1A gene by single-strand conformation analysis.
These results suggest that the milder phenotype in humans is due to residual frataxin expression associated with the expansion mutations.
Here we present a detailed clinical and genetic study of a subset of 51 patients homozygous for an expansion of the GAA repeat.
We describe seven Dutch patients from six families with a slowly progressive, mainly spinal cord syndrome that remained for many years the sole expression of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis CTX.
For genetic counseling and predictive testing in families with inherited breast-ovarian cancer, penetrances and expressions of the underlying mutations should be known.
Consequently, familial studies in patients affected by this syndrome are recommended..
This gene, designated HPRT Tokyo, had a single nucleotide change from G to A, as identified by sequencing cDNA amplified by the polymerase chain reaction.
Two groups of subjects with hyperbilirubinaemia of non-immunological origin were examined: (a) 302 newborn babies of Sardinian extraction (on cord blood) and (b) 201 newborn babies of south Italian ancestry on peripheral blood.
This is the first report of diagnosis of maternal UPD(14) based on clinical features.
Heterozygotes for the gene for A-T are thought to comprise about 1% of the general population and, therefore, it is important to know whether this gene also predisposes the heterozygous carrier to cancers.
We found that PAX3-FKHR but not PAX3 activated a myogenic transcription program including the induction of transcription factors MyoD, Myogenin, Six1, and Slug as well as a battery of genes involved in several aspects of muscle function.
A patient who showed an intermediate saliva/serum technetium ratio (14.0; normal, > or = 20) and was considered to have a partial or less severe defect in the previous report (IX-24) did not have a NIS gene mutation.
BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Hereditary hemochromatosis is associated with homozygosity for the C282Y mutation in the hemochromatosis (HFE) gene on chromosome 6, elevated serum transferrin saturation, and excess iron deposits throughout the body.
Because the intact chromosome 7, opposite the deleted homolog, maintains the correct imprint in somatic cells of PWS and AS mice and establishes the correct imprint in male and female germ cells of AS mice, homologous association and replication asynchrony are not part of the imprinting mechanism.
The presence of normally spliced transcripts was correlated with a milder phenotype.
This is the first population-based ovarian cancer study reporting BRCA1 alterations derived from a comprehensive screen of the entire coding region.
Evidence for placing OCRL at Xq25 also comes from a female with Lowe syndrome and an X;3 translocation.
BssSI digestion of polymerase chain reaction products amplified from genomic DNA indicated that affected cats were homozygous and cats with half-normal beta-glucuronidase activity were heterozygous for the missense mutation.
Interstitial cytogenetic deletions involving the paternally derived chromosome 15q11-13 have been described in patients with the Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
Three exon 2 mutations were identified, including a single nucleotide deletion (2692delA) of codon 349 introducing a frameshift and premature termination codon, a 2 bp deletion (2673-2674delCT) that results in introduction of a stop codon at amino acid 343, and a G-->A substitution in codon 429 (2931G-->A) introducing a premature termination codon.
When the site-specific mutagenized alpha cDNA carrying the T-->C transition at nt 1453 was expressed in COS 1 cells hexosaminidase S activity was not detectable above background.
All children with homozygous or heterozygous C3 deficiency were, to a varying degree, susceptible to infection.
The AG dinucleotide deletion at position 1081-1082, which has been reported previously to be the most common mutation in white patients (12%-17%), was also identified as the most common mutation in Japanese patients 12%.
Structural information of GLDC and psiGLDC should facilitate the molecular analysis of NKH..
The results suggest that the prenatal diagnosis of Wolman disease be made using the radioassay of acid lipase and/or electrophoresis..
Our results demonstrate that SLS is caused by a strikingly heterogeneous group of mutations in the FALDH gene and provide a framework for understanding the genetic basis of SLS and the development of DNA-based diagnostic tests..
However, their proliferative responses to anti-CD43 antibody and periodate were diminished, consistent with the clinical diagnosis of WAS.
Single strand conformational polymorphism analysis and direct sequencing of amplified exon 13 revealed a T-->C transition at nt 1453 with the corresponding amino acid substitution W485R in the second family.
The duration of disease is correlated with wheelchair use and the presence of diabetes, scoliosis, bladder symptoms and impaired proprioception, and vibration sense but no other complications studied..
Such a sex difference in AO was not apparent for any of the other APOE genotypes.
Magel2 distribution partially overlaps that of NDN:, with strong expression being detected in the central nervous system in mid-gestation mouse embryos by in situ hybridization.
Existence of the P16INK4A mutation and the hereditary TP53 mutation with or without loss of heterozygosity in the TP53 gene (seminoma/medulloblastoma) may be evidence for a common mechanism involved in tumorogenesis.
We have developed a multiplex heteroduplex analysis that is designed to analyze one-quarter of the coding sequence in a single-step screening procedure and that will detect approximately 50% of all BRCA1 mutations so far reported in breast/ovarian cancer families.
This is the first report of protein studies on patients with missense mutations resulting in the clinical features of EDMD.
Many of the DNA changes we detected were intragenic polymorphisms.
The two HL-A haplotypes closely linked to C2 deficiency are different: 2, W18 and W24, W18.
We report that heterozygosity for a targeted murine Wt1 allele, Wt1(tmT396), which truncates ZF3 at codon 396, induces mesangial sclerosis characteristic of DDS in adult heterozygous and chimeric mice.
Restriction mapping and DNA sequencing were then used to identify the Hgd(aku) mouse mutation, found to be a single base change in a splice donor consensus sequence, causing exon skipping and frame-shifted products.
We show that the mutant cells maintain an intact G1-S cell cycle checkpoint and proliferate poorly.
We discuss here the recent progress made towards understanding the molecular mechanism of CGG repeat expansion and physiological function(s) of FMRP.
Duarte 1 (or Los Angeles) and Duarte 2 (or Duarte) variants carry the same amino acid substitution, N314D, even though D1 is associated with increased erythrocyte GALT activity and D2 with reduced activity.
Eighty unrelated individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) or Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) were found to have deletions in the major deletion-rich region of the DMD locus.
We have found that FAP patients with germline APC mutations within a small region (codons 1,194-1,392 at most) mainly show allelic loss in their colorectal adenomas, in contrast to other FAP patients, whose 'second hits' tend to occur by truncating mutations in the mutation cluster region.
Germline mutations in the p16 and CDK4 genes have been reported in a subset of melanoma pedigrees, but their prevalence is not well known.
His oral clearance of phenytoin was 21% of the mean of the other 11 individuals participating in the study, and his oral clearance of glipizide, a second generation sulfonylurea structurally similar to tolbutamide, was only 188% of the mean of the other 10 individuals.
Recently, this autosomal recessive disorder was shown to be caused by mutations in the PDS gene, which encodes an anion transporter called pendrin.
In order to understand the genetic and phenotypic basis for DPD deficiency, we have reviewed 17 families presenting 22 patients with complete deficiency of DPD.
The fourth occurred within intron 9, preventing splicing at one of the alternatively chosen splice donor sites of exon 9 when assayed in vitro.
We have analysed the DNA sequence in constitutional cells from eight patients and have shown heterozygous mutations in six of them.
Moreover, the re-establishment of the structural integrity of the photoreceptor layer also results in electrophysiological correction.
The breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene, BRCA1, has been cloned and shown to encode a zinc-finger protein of unknown function.
DNA analysis showed maternal heterodisomy for chromosome 14.
Consequently, sporadic and VHL-associated forms of renal cell carcinoma might both result from alterations causing loss of function of the same 'tumour suppressor' gene on this chromosome..
On the other hand, the occurrence of an extremely heterogeneous spectrum of mutations spread throughout the entire length of the large APC gene among the FAP patients indicates that this approach may not be useful as a rapid presymptomatic diagnostic procedure in a routine laboratory.
A common recurrent mutation, at the donor splice site of FGA intron 4 (IVS4 + 1 G > T), accounted for 14 of the 26 (54%) alleles.
The presence of dimeric COLIA1/PDGFB precursors was demonstrated through PDGFB immunoprecipitations of metabolically labeled cells and also by PDGFB immunoprecipitations followed by immunoblotting with COLIA1 antibodies.
Although many of the same regions of the CNS in both Bax-/- and Atm-/- mice were radioresistant, mice nullizygous for both Bax and Atm showed additional reduction in IR-induced apoptosis in the CNS.
C4 phenotyping in 20 patients and in 26 parents showed that 90% and 81%, respectively, had null allotypes at either the C4A or C4B locus compared with 59% in controls, indicating that defective expression of structural genes may contribute to the observed C4 deficiency..
This protein has been implicated in protein translation as it is found associated with polyribosomes and the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
Over 100 distinct disease-associated mutations have been identified in the breast-ovarian cancer susceptibility gene BRCA1.
A susceptibility gene for hereditary breast-ovarian cancer, BRCA1, has been assigned by linkage analysis to chromosome 17q21.
All 14 mutations were identified, as well as an additional five that had previously escaped detection.
Because conventional Piga gene knockout is associated with high embryonic lethality in chimeric mice, we used the Cre/loxP system.
RESULTS: Point mutations in the XLRS1 gene were identified in all 10 patients.
Coats' disease is characterized by abnormal retinal vascular development (so-called 'retinal telangiectasis') which results in massive intraretinal and subretinal lipid accumulation exudative retinal detachment.
Four cases of adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) and one case of adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) have developed in a kindred over three generations demonstrating that AMN is a clinical variant of ALD.
Of 57 informative meioses, two crossovers were noted between the C2 deficiency gene and the HLA-B gene, with a recombinant fraction of 0.035.
Instead, the low levels of mRNA from this allele were comprised of aberrant species resulting from the use of either of two cryptic donor sites, one truncating exon 9 and the other within IVS-9, spliced to exon 10.
The genetic defect in DM is a CTG repeat expansion located in the 3' untranslated region of DMPK and 5' of a homeodomain-encoding gene, SIX5 formerly DMAHP; refs 2-5.
The 185delAG mutation in BRCA1 is detected in Ashkenazi Jews both in familial breast and ovarian cancer and in the general population.
Norrie disease is a human X-linked recessive disorder of unknown etiology characterized by congenital blindness, sensory neural deafness and mental retardation.
We have identified 14 families with ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) in which mutation of the ATM gene is associated with a less severe clinical and cellular phenotype approximately 10%-15% of A-T families identified in the United Kingdom.
Immunoblot analysis revealed that VLCAD protein was undetectable in patients 2 and 3, whereas normal-size VLCAD protein and an aberrant form of VLCAD (4kDa smaller) were detected in patient 1.
Twelve aniridia patients, five with a family history and seven presumed to be sporadic, were exhaustively screened in order to test what proportion of people with aniridia, uncomplicated by associated anomalies, carry mutations in the human PAX6 gene.
The early growth response 2 gene ( EGR2 ) is a Cys2His2zinc finger transcription factor which is thought to play a role in the regulation of peripheral nervous system myelination.
We postulated that a specific pattern of VHL mutations is associated with sporadic RCC.
The overlap between clinical and cellular phenotypes in A-T and NBS suggests that ATM and nibrin may function in the same biochemical pathway.
Those with hereditary cancers had improved survival compared with the nonhereditary group P=.004.
This synergistic effect was also demonstrated on thermal stability, especially at low NADP concentrations.
The results of FISH analysis showed an additional copy of PLP in Xp22.1, although no chromosomal rearrangements could be detected by standard karyotype analysis.
Fragments of the adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) cDNA from a patient with adolescent ALD were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and subcloned.
The cellular features resulting from these hMRE11 mutations are similar to those seen in A-T as well as NBS and include hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation, radioresistant DNA synthesis, and abrogation of ATM-dependent events, such as the activation of Jun kinase following exposure to gamma irradiation.
All of the French patients were heterozygous for this polymorphism.
Mefv is localized on mouse Chromosome (Chr) 16, region A3-B1, extending a region of synteny with human Chr 16p13.3.
Individuals homoallelic for Q188R tend to have a severe phenotype and this is in keeping with the virtually complete loss of enzyme activity observed in in vitro expression systems.
ATM phosphorylation of nibrin does not affect nibrin-MRE11-RAD50 association as revealed by radiation-induced foci formation.
To evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic value of MEFV-gene analysis, we investigated 90 Armenian FMF patients from 77 unrelated families that were not selected through genetic-linkage analysis.
Ten variants of erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were identified in 22 patients with G6PD deficiency from three districts of Bulgaria.
It results in defective membrane targeting of the proteins present in secretory lysosomes, and it is associated with a variety of features, including a lymphoproliferative syndrome with hemophagocytosis.
Overall, there was some evidence for linkage, with a peak parametric multipoint LOD score assuming heterogeneity (HLOD) of 1.40 (P=.01) at D1S212.
Benign familial infantile convulsions (BFIC) is a rare autosomal dominant epilepsy syndrome.
Recent studies have shown that hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is likely to be caused by homozygosity for a Cys282Tyr mutation in the HFE gene located 4.5 Mb telomeric to HLA-A.
Although G6PD deficiency is now regarded as a generally benign disorder, in earlier environmental conditions it could have been significantly disadvantageous..
Ectopic expression of wild-type, but not mutated, BRCA1 in these cells rendered them less sensitive to the DNA damage agent, methyl methanesulfonate.
We present here a pedigree of a 31-year-old C2-deficient individual with clinical manifestations of Hodgkins disease.
We, and others, have demonstrated that repeat expansion decreases expression of the adjacent gene SIX5 (refs 7,8), which encodes a homeodomain transcription factor.
Genetic polymorphisms in the cytochrome P450 (CYP) family are widely known to contribute to interindividual differences in the pharmacokinetics of many drugs.
Somatic PTEN deletions and mutations were observed in sporadic breast, brain, prostate and kidney cancer cell lines and in several primary tumours such as endometrial carcinomas, malignant melanoma and thyroid tumours.
When one such case was studied by Western blotting, reduced amounts of normal-size WASP were present.
Sequence analysis revealed a C-to-G transversion at the second base of codon 322, resulting in a substitution of glycine for alanine, in four mutant haplotype 12 genes, and a G-to-A transition at the second base of codon 408, resulting in a substitution of glutamine for arginine, in another three mutant haplotype 12 genes.
In all the previously described 11 cases with maternal UPD(14), a Robertsonian translocation involving chromosome 14 was detected cytogenetically before DNA analysis.
The 82 patients included in this study had developed breast cancer at age <45 and had survived >/=5 years (mean 15 years), and in 33 (40%) of the patients a contralateral breast tumor had been diagnosed.
We then evaluated the effects of differing dosages of gentamicin on expression and functional protection of the muscles of mdx mice.
The 14 exons of the PAX6 gene have been analysed exon-by-exon using SSCP in 6 aniridia families.
We provide genetic evidence supporting the identity of the candidate gene for BRCA1 through the characterization of germline mutations in 63 breast cancer patients and 10 ovarian cancer patients in ten families with cancer linked to chromosome 17q21.
Here we describe the combined results of more than 20 research laboratories with respect to the occurrence of deletions at the DXS164 locus in DNA samples isolated from patients with DMD and Becker muscular dystrophy BMD.
No normally spliced RNA was detected in PCR products generated from reverse transcription of RNA carrying the IVS-9 mutation.
Mutations in the brain specific P/Q type Ca2+ channel alpha1 subunit gene, CACNA1A, have been identified in three clinically distinct disorders, viz.
Uniparental disomy has recently been recognized to cause human disorders, including Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
Motor incoordination, immune deficiencies, and an increased risk of cancer are the characteristic features of the hereditary disease ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), which is caused by mutations in the ATM gene.
Globally, K285N is rarer, but in many European populations it can be found on 25-40% of mutant chromosomes.
We have characterized expression of the familial breast and ovarian cancer gene, BRCA1, in cases of non-hereditary (sporadic) breast cancer and analyzed the effect of antisense inhibition of BRCA1 on the proliferative rate of mammary epithelial cells.
Germline mutations in the RB1 gene confer hereditary predisposition to retinoblastoma.
Control individuals showed clear expression of FMRP in nearly every hair root, whereas male fragile X patients lacked expression of FMRP in almost all their hair roots.
Relevance of this model was suggested by verification that three of these genes (IGFBP5, HSIX1, and Slug) were also expressed in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines.
In an effort to understand the function of BRCA1, we sought to isolate proteins that interact with the BRCT domain.
Measured by radioimmunoassay with a synthetic Leu-AVP standard, serum Leu-AVP levels were elevated in all three children and further increased during water deprivation to as high as 30 times normal.
RESULTS: Hereditary cancers were rarely diagnosed before age 40 years and were common after age 60 years, with mean age at diagnosis being significantly younger for BRCA1- vs BRCA2-linked patients 54 vs 62 years; P=.04.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), an X-linked immunodeficiency disease caused by mutation in the recently isolated gene encoding WAS protein (WASP), is known to be associated with extensive clinical heterogeneity.
VHL mutations were found only in the nonpapillary renal cell carcinoma (RCC) subtype, as previously reported.
Neither pyruvate carboxylase nor mitochondrial PEPCK activity in lymphocytes was increased by a 21-hr fast..
Furthermore, this mutation has been detected in a family member with mild clinical signs including only migraine.
Classical galactosemia is caused by a deficiency in activity of the enzyme galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT), which, in turn, is caused by mutations at the GALT gene.
Sixty percent of patients had childhood ALD and 17% adrenomyeloneuropathy, both of which are X-linked, with the gene mapped to Xq28.
The enzymatic defect leads to the systemic accumulation of neutral glycosphingolipids with terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties.
Deletion of the same three loci in all 14 DGS probands begins to delineate the region of chromosome 22 critical for DGS and confirms the hypothesis that submicroscopic deletions of 22q11 are etiologic in the vast majority of cases..
Our results indicate that different APC mutations provide cells with different selective advantages, with mutations close to codon 1,300 providing the greatest advantage.
We have determined that the human gene (PDEB) maps to 4p16.3, very close to the Huntington disease (HD) region.
We report carrier identification and a prenatal diagnosis using DNA polymorphisms in 2 families with X-linked Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease PMD.
Hitherto accepted figures may underestimate the frequency by a factor of 10 to 20..
In the fifth family, FISH analysis demonstrated the deletion of the entire VHL gene.
The Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) critical region on 15q11-q13 is subject to imprinting.
DNA methylation analysis of D15S63 is consistent with an abnormality of the imprinting center associated with PWS. Grandmatrilineal" inheritance occurs when a woman with deletion of an imprinted
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a neurogenetic disease characterized by infantile hypotonia, gonadal hypoplasia, obsessive behaviour and neonatal feeding difficulties followed by hyperphagia, leading to profound obesity.
A family study revealed complete C9 deficiency in the patient's healthy brother and half-normal C9 concentrations in his sister, his son (who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis), and his niece, consistent with an inherited C9 deficiency.
The relationship between glycerol and the risk of IGT, however, is poorly understood.
In comparison with the usual EDMD phenotype, patients with P183 missense mutations have a later age at onset of first symptoms, elbow contractures, ankle contractures, upper limb weakness and lower limb weakness, but there is no difference for the age at onset of cardiac involvement.
The results suggest a common founder for this mutation.
BACKGROUND: X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) is an inherited disease characterized by progressive neurologic dysfunction, occasionally associated with adrenal insufficiency.
In myotonic dystrophy (DM), the size of a CTG repeat in the DM kinase gene generally increases in successive generations with clinical evidence of anticipation.
A portion of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene transcript from human fetal skeletal muscle and mouse adult heart was sequenced, representing approximately 25 percent of the total, 14-kb DMD transcript.
We conclude that the autosomal dominant aniridia in this family is due to a mutation at the AN2 locus on 11p13.
We identified four RNA splicing factors--hnRNP C, U2AF (U2 auxiliary factor), PTB (polypyrimidine tract binding protein), and PSF (PTB associated splicing factor)--that bind to two short regions 3' of the (CUG)n, and found a novel 3' DMPK exon resulting in an mRNA lacking the repeats.
We describe an aggressive and ultimately fatal case of PG in a patient with a congenital C7 deficiency.
A large phenotypic variability has been observed, with convulsive disorders, motor retardation and mental retardation being the most abundant manifestations.
We describe a recurrent large expansion of a maternal allele with 36 CAG repeats (to 66 and 57 repeats, respectively, in two daughters) associated with onset of Huntington disease (HD) in the second and third decade in a family without history of HD.
The previous report on the Japanese patients also suggested that disease allele stability may be influenced by a trans effect of an intragenic polymorphism (987 G/C) in the wild-type allele.
However, the C-terminal end of the putative protein differs strongly from the published human sequence.
Deletion of this IC abolishes local paternally derived gene expression and results in Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
In contrast, mild mutations were mostly located on the surface of the GALNS protein.
In addition, 5 of 12 nonsense mutations and 1 missense mutation were associated with deletion in the cDNA of the exons in which the mutations occurred.
A high percentage of ATM germline mutations was demonstrated among patients with sporadic breast cancer.
To learn about causative mechanisms, we have cloned and sequenced the breakpoints of a cytologically balanced constitutional reciprocal translocation, t X;4 (p21.2;q31.22), present in a girl with Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
Our results show that (quantitative) Southern blot analysis is a sensitive method for detecting germline deletions of the VHL gene and should be implemented in routine DNA diagnosis for VHL disease.
Infantile Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) is caused by mutations in the HEXA gene that result in the complete absence of beta-hexosaminidase A activity.
To determine if a cathepsin C mutation is also responsible for HMS, we sequenced the gene in affected and unaffected subjects from the Cochin isolate in which both the PLS and HMS phenotypes appear.
Of these, 31 had severe G6PD deficiency, nine had mild to moderate deficiency, and three had a non-deficient electrophoretic variant.
However, the clinical severity of the disease was not quite as mild as expected, the mutation was not identified in the father despite confirmed paternity, and the paternal allele showed a highly unusual pattern of polymorphic markers in the PAH gene.
Sequence analysis of CTSC from subjects affected with PLS from five consanguineous Turkish families identified four different mutations.
Together these data define the obligate region containing the NDP gene to a chromosomal segment less than 150 kb..
Previous authors have used the RNase protection assay and the single-strand conformation polymorphisms procedure to screen for mutations.
The rates of transport for iodide and chloride were significantly increased following the expression of pendrin in both cell systems.
Both the deciduous and permanent dentitions are affected, resulting in premature tooth loss.
An Alu-PCR fragment from the right arm of the MAO YAC (YMAO.AluR) is not deleted in this patient and also delineates the centromeric extent of the obligate disease region.
The gene for EDMD on Xq28 encodes a novel protein named emerin that localizes at the nuclear membrane of skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles and some other non-muscle tissues.
We report here on the analysis of C282Y, H63D, and the 193A-->T substitution leading to the S65C missense substitution in a large series of probands and controls.
Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia is more frequently caused by dominant mutations in the COMP (EDM1, McKusick 132400) and COL9A2 genes EDM2, McKusick 600204.
However, perhaps because of an ancient frame-shift mutation, neither the mouse nor the rat protein has an intact C-terminal B30.2 domain, in which most FMF-associated mutations have been found in human MEFV.
DNA of affected males and obligate carriers was PCR amplified and analyzed by SSCA, heteroduplex analysis, and direct sequencing.
Of 16 oral mucosal lesions studied histologically, 15 represented fibroepithelial or epithelial hyperplasias and were reactive in nature.
Glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) is a cytosolic enzyme encoded by a housekeeping X-linked gene whose main function is to produce NADPH, a key electron donor in the defense against oxidizing agents and in reductive biosynthetic reactions.
Familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (FNDI) is an autosomal dominant disease caused by deficiency in the antidiuretic hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP) encoded by the AVP-neurophysin II (AVP-NPII) gene on chromosome 20p13.
The distinction between the two fragile sites is important clinically since cytogenetic detection of FRAXE, without molecular analysis, could result in misdiagnosis of fragile X syndrome..
Canavan disease is an autosomal recessive leukodystrophy caused by the deficiency of aspartoacylase ASPA.
In the analyses of tumor tissues from the propositus and his daughter, a P16INK4A codon 94 missense point mutation (GCG-->GAG; Ala-->Glu) was observed with the hereditary TP53 mutation.
The phenotype in these families was compared in detail with the clinical features in cases with typical null mutations.
DGGE analysis of 10 APC exons (4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, and part of 15) in 33 unrelated Dutch FAP patients has led to the identification of eight novel germ line mutations resulting in stop codons or frameshifts.
The Denys-Drash syndrome is characterised by a typical nephropathy, genital abnormalities and also predisposes to the development of Wilms' tumor.
The molecular details of ATM function in the nervous system are unclear, although the neurological lesion in ataxia-telangiectasia becomes apparent early in life, suggesting a developmental origin.
The Gc-locus is closely linked to the structural albumin locus.
The mechanism by which (CTG)n expansion in the 3' UTR of the DMPK gene causes myotonic dystrophy (DM) is unknown.
A new tumor suppressor gene, PTEN/MMAC1, was isolated recently at this region of chromosome 10q23 and found to be inactivated by mutation in three prostate cancer cell lines.
Our patient illustrates the importance of investigating for underlying ocular and central nervous system pathology whenever midline scalp defects are present..
All missense mutations were located in exons 1-4.
Many missense and protein-truncating mutations of the causative gene RS1 have now been identified and are thought to be inactivating.
We have searched for germ-line RB1 mutations in 119 patients with hereditary retinoblastoma.
Coalescence analyses for the N370S and 84GG mutations estimated similar coalescence times, of 48 and 55.5 generations ago, respectively.
Atm(y/y) mice exhibit deficits in motor learning indicative of cerebellar dysfunction.
Tumor tissue obtained from the propositus with the seminoma revealed loss of heterozygosity in the TP53 gene.
The hereditary group had a longer disease-free interval following primary chemotherapy in comparison with the nonhereditary group, with a median time to recurrence of 14 months and 7 months, respectively P<.001.
Variant A(-1)T at the Fas signal-sequence cleavage site, which mediates apoptosis less well than wild-type Fas and is partially inhibitory, was present in 13% of African American alleles.
These data functionally define a novel genetic locus, designated PAC1, for prostate adenocarcinoma 1, involved in tumor suppression of human prostate carcinoma and furthermore strongly suggest that the cell death pathway can be functionally restored in prostatic adenocarcinoma..
Use of a cryptic 5' splice site in exon 8, which results in absence or presence of 15 nucleotides specifying a VSGGG peptide motif, and/or use of a cryptic 3' splice site in exon 14, which leads to a frameshift in the mRNA reading frame, occur as independent stochastic events in all tissues examined.
Exons 1-3 of the functional GLDC gene from this patient are not amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), whereas those from control subjects are.
Appreciable beta hexosaminidase A (hex A) activity has been detected in cultured skin fibroblasts and melanoma tissue from healthy individuals previously reported as having deficiency of hex A activity indistinguishable from that of patients with Tay-Sachs disease TSD.
A gene encoding a novel transmembrane protein was identified by DNA sequence analysis within the insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) locus IDDM4 on chromosome 11q13.
The frequency of G6PD deficiency varies between 3% and 15% in different tribal and urban groups.
It can be used with limited amounts of material and has strong potential for clinical applications..
Lymphocytes from all WAS patients showed WASPdim instead of WASPbright.
The mutation introduces a new recognition site for the restriction enzyme Eco RV, permitting identification of heterozygotes for this allele following PCR amplification and Eco RV digestion of exon 7 sequences from genomic DNA templates.
There were no differences in phenotypic expressions between missense mutations involving conserved amino acids and those involving nonconserved amino acids.
The zinc finger mutations affect DNA binding and the amount of residual binding directly correlates with disease severity.
The efficiency of this system, as a screening test for BRCA1 mutations, was evaluated in a panel of 60 samples from high risk women, 14 of which contained a previously identified mutation in BRCA1.
Homozygosity for poor metabolizer alleles was found to be associated with AS.
We describe the proportion of hereditary breast cancer explained by BRCA1 or BRCA2 in a sample of North American hereditary breast cancers and assess the evidence for additional susceptibility genes that may confer hereditary breast or ovarian cancer risk.
Heterozygous carriers of this gene are common among the close relatives of patients with A-T, although individual carriers cannot be identified by any clinical criterion or laboratory test.
A combination of multiplex PCR with the single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) technique was employed to screen for point mutations in the human dystrophin gene.
Mutations in the ATM gene are responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) MIM 208900.
Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) studies with distal 11p13 specific cosmids showed that the chromosome 11 breakpoint lay between the aniridia (PAX6) locus and a region approximately 100 kb distal to PAX6 defined by the cosmid FO2121.
A significant number of these mutations are premature stop codons.
A missense mutation, R483G, was located in the highly conserved PtdIns(4,5)P2 5-phosphatase domain.
The expression level of all the Kell antigens in erythrocyte was decreased and molecular analysis revealed a single-base (T) deletion at the nucleotide position 1095 in XK.
Cutaneous and ocular pigmentation were evaluated in 29 individuals with the Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
Using this combined approach, we identified germline APC gene mutations in 29 of the 48 FAP patients (60%), including 6 patients in whom SSCP analysis failed to distinguish the mutant allele.
The gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that recognizes target genes through its paired-type DNA-binding domain.
To determine the genetic basis for reduction or loss of enzyme activity, we have amplified and sequenced the coding region of HPRT cDNA from four patients: one with Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (HPRTPerth) and three with partial deficiencies of HPRT activity, which have been designated HPRTUrangan, HPRTSwan and HPRTToowong.
These findings reveal a direct function for BRCA1 in transcriptional control through modulation of chromatin structure..
Several transgenic lines were generated that carried the entire FMR1 locus with extensive amounts of flanking sequence.
Of the 83 people we studied who have mutations in FRDA, 78 are homozygous for an expanded GAA repeat; the other five patients have an expansion in one allele and a point mutation in the other.
episodic ataxia type 2 (EA-2), familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) and spinocerebellar ataxia 6 SCA6.
Altogether, 20 of the patients had BRCA1 1675delA, and 10 had 1135insA.
Although the mutant hMre11 proteins retain some ability to interact with hRad50 and Nbs1, formation of ionizing radiation-induced hMre11 and Nbs1 foci was absent in hMRE11 mutant cells.
Germline VHL gene mutations predispose to the development of retinal, cerebellar and spinal haemangioblastomas, renal cell carcinoma and phaeochromocytoma.
The mutations 2871delC and 2513delA shift the reading frame so that truncated abnormal protein is expected.
Additionally, a second previously identified recurrent muta tion, C2272T, in exon 16 has been discovered in a patient with FHM..
In some affected eyes, collagen bundles were half normal diameter, or collagen and elastic tissue were very sparse.
Moreover, G6PD deficiency should be added to other conditions, such as the galactosemic states and riboflavin deficiency, where cataracts represent a sensitive indicator of metabolic abnormalities of the RBC..
He was found to be homozygous, and both healthy parents heterozygous, for the R279W mutation in DTDST, and his fibroblasts showed a sulphate incorporation defect typical of DTDST disorders.
Genetic hemochromatosis (GH) is believed to be a disease restricted to those of European ancestry.
In contrast to these mutations found in patients with hepatic-type of early onset, the mutations A874V, R778L, and 3892delGTC were either missense mutations or in frame 1-amino acid deletion, and occurred in the patients with hepato-neurologic type of late onset.
A population-based series of 54 male breast cancer cases from Southern California were analyzed for germ-line mutations in the inherited breast/ovarian cancer genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2.
The recently cloned human breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene, BRCA1, is located on human chromosome 17q21.
To determine the prevalence of heterozygous carriers of the Arg95Stop mutation in a Japanese population, we collected DNA samples from 300 individuals in two of the four main islands of Japan.
Comparable results were produced when the replacement 119 Gln-->Glu was studied instead of 126 Asn-->Asp.
Screening for the G6PD deficiency was carried out at the Maternity Division of the Galliera Hospital in Genoa, Italy.
Mutants found in the severe phenotype had no activity.
Twenty-one of them were point mutations; 16 nonsense and two missense mutations, and three occurred in introns at the splicing site.
A-T heterozygotes may comprise more than 5% of all persons dying from a cancer before age 45.
The single family with a BRCA2 mutation had the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome.
The CTSC message is expressed at high levels in a variety of immune cells including polymorphonuclear leucocytes, macrophages, and their precursors.
The considerable genetic heterogeneity documented to date undoubtedly contributes to the phenotypic heterogeneity that is observed in galactosemia.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is associated with the expansion of a (CTG)n trinucleotide repeat in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of the DM protein kinase gene DMPK.
We have undertaken a systematic evaluation of DMD/BMD patients through clinical examination and review of the literature in order to determine whether the position-specific effects of mutations noted in the mouse are present in man.
A female with a unilateral variant of Coats' disease gave birth to a son affected by Norrie disease.
Although marked differences in extragenic marker haplotypes were seen in one family, similar intragenic haplotyping suggests the same mutation founder for this family with the differences explicable by two recombination events..
Maternal uniparental disomy (UPD) for chromosome 15 is responsible for an estimated 30% of cases of Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
This treatment could prove effective in up to 15% of patients with DMD..
These results suggest that rhabdoid tumors, choroid plexus carcinomas and a subset of medulloblastomas and cPNETs share common pathways of oncogenesis related to hSNF5/INI1 alteration and that hSNF5/INI1 mutations define a genetically homogeneous family of highly aggressive cancers mainly occurring in young children and frequently, but not always, exhibiting a rhabdoid phenotype..
Haplotyping showed that they are likely to derive from a common ancestor, possibly of northern British origin.
An amelogenin gene, AMGX, has been mapped to the short of the X chromosome (Xp22.1-p22.3) and has been implicated in the molecular pathology of X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta AIH1.
Eight of the 16 homozygous subjects had clinical findings that were consistent with the presence of hereditary hemochromatosis, such as hepatomegaly, skin pigmentation, and arthritis.
Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) is characterized by autoimmune features and lymphoproliferations and is generally caused by defective Fas-mediated apoptosis.
The following markers were tested: C2 levels, factor B polymorphism, blood groups, and enzyme typing.
Cell fusion complementation studies demonstrated that these diseases are genetically heterogeneous, with two-thirds of all patients lying within a single complementation group, CG1.
We conclude that the COLIA1/PDGFB fusion associated with DFSP contributes to tumor development through ectopic production of PDGF-BB and the formation of an autocrine loop.
Li-Fraumeni syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder that is characterized by various types of cancer in childhood and adult cases.
These results suggest the possibility of a unique origin for a mutation responsible for many or most cases of VWS..
Autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (ADNDI) is an inherited disease caused by progressive degeneration of the magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamus leading to decreased ability to produce the hormone arginine vasopressin AVP.
The maximum two-point LOD score was found for marker at D8S267 Zmax=3.237 at Omax=0.00.
The gene for Alstrom syndrome (ALMS1) has been previously localized to human chromosome 2p13 by homozygosity mapping in two distinct isolated populations - French Acadian and North African.
The most important findings can be summarized as follows: (1) The Spanish population is characterized by an important heterogeneity in G6PD deficiency.
Among the ALPS-associated Fas mutants, dominant inhibition of apoptosis was much more pronounced in mutants affecting the intracellular, versus extracellular, portion of the Fas receptor.
A study was undertaken to characterize the mutation(s) responsible for Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) in a Cajun population in southwest Louisiana and to identify the origins of these mutations.
Am J Hum Genet, 1992 , these two alleles accounted for almost 50% (29/64) of TSD or carrier alleles ascertained by enzyme screening tests in non-Jewish Caucasians..
Patients were selected because they were heterozygous or homozygous for C2 deficiency. 12 families with 15 matings informative for C2 deficiency were found.
Given the expected logistical problems in clinical management now that BRCA1 has been identified, we propose an interim period in which only families with a strong positive family history for early onset breast and/or ovarian cancer will be offered BRCA1 mutation testing..
CONCLUSIONS: The S135L mutation in the GALT gene is a prevalent cause of galactosemia among black patients.
In a study of G6PD deficient patients who presented with clinical favism in Spain, we have found a new polymorphic variant that we have called G6PD Malaga, whose only abnormality is a 542 A--T (181 Asp--Val) mutation.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with biotin-labeled probes mapping to 11p13 has been used for the molecular analysis of deletions of the WAGR (Wilms tumor, aniridia, genitourinary abnormalities, and mental retardation) locus.
He has been found to have a variant of hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HPRT; E.C.2.4.2.8) distinct from the enzyme present in patients with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.
Most colon cancers arise from mutations in the gene encoding adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), a protein required for ubiquitin-mediated degradation of beta-catenin, but a small percentage of colon and some other cancers harbour beta-catenin-stabilizing mutations.
We report on a new allele at the arylsulfatase A (ARSA) locus causing late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy MLD.
Most emerin mutations result in absence of the protein.
Our results demonstrate that it is strongly advisable, for laboratories carrying out screening either in English-speaking countries or in countries with historical links with Britain, to include within their BRCA1 screening protocols the polymerase chain reaction-based assay described in this report..
A controlled, double-blind therapeutic trial with the drug mazindol, a growth hormone inhibitor, was performed in a pair of 7 1/2 year-old monozygotic twins, with Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is the most common form of adult muscular dystrophy, with a prevalence of 2-14 per 100,000 individuals.
The complete sequence and characterization of the structure of the DM kinase gene, as well as the identification of novel polymorphisms within the gene, represent an important step in a further understanding of the genetics of myotonic dystrophy and the molecular biology of the gene..
No mutation in the coding region of the proteolipid protein (PLP) gene had been found.
The HMGI family of proteins consists of three members, HMGIC, HMGI and HMGI(Y), that function as architectural factors and are essential components of the enhancesome.
These results are consistent with the hypothesis of linkage to HPC1 in a subset of families with prostate cancer, particularly those with an early age at diagnosis..
These findings strongly implicate TSG101 mutations in human breast cancer..
The Wilms tumor-suppressor gene, WT1, plays a key role in urogenital development, and WT1 dysfunction is implicated in both neoplastic (Wilms tumor, mesothelioma, leukemias, and breast cancer) and nonneoplastic (glomerulosclerosis) disease.
Pendred syndrome is the most common form of syndromic deafness, characterized by dyshormonogenic goiter associated with sensory-neural deafness.
We recently described a Japanese family with increased HDL levels and CETP deficiency due to a splicing defect of the CETP gene.
We report here fine physical mapping of the obligate region containing the Norrie disease gene (NDP) defined by a recombination and by the smallest submicroscopic chromosomal deletion associated with Norrie disease identified to date.
Recently, a 6-kb duplication of exon 13, which creates a frameshift in the coding sequence of the BRCA1 gene, has been described in three unrelated U.S. families of European ancestry and in one Portuguese family.
We examined galactosylceramidase (GALC) cDNA in four Japanese patients with adult onset globoid cell leukodystrophy (Krabbe disease; AO-GLD) by polymerase chain reaction/single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analysis, subsequent sequence determination, and restriction enzyme digestion of PCR products, initial symptoms were the onset of slowly progressive spastic paraplegia from the middle of the second decade, and all patients had diminished GALC activity in their leukocytes.
Correlation of physical and genetic maps of this interval indicate it includes at least 40 ESTs and six known genes including the lysosomal protease cathepsin C gene CTSC.
The latter three mutations are predicted to result in exon skipping in the mRNA encoded from the mutant allele.
We have previously cloned and sequenced a Na+/glucose cotransporter from normal human ileum and shown that this gene, SGLT1, resides on the distal q arm of chromosome 22.
Mutations at the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) locus are the major cause of hyperphenylalaninemia.
Chromosome banding disclosed that the clones are consistently marked by structural rearrangement of the long arm (q) of chromosome 14.
It should now be possible to identify mutations in the noncoding genomic sequences that lead to Canavan disease and to study the regulation of ASPA..
Experimental models of polyglutamine disease implicate the nucleus in pathogenesis; however, the link between intranuclear expression of expanded polyglutamine and neuronal dysfunction remains unclear.
We show that homozygous deletions cause embryonic lethality a few days after implantation, demonstrating an important role for frataxin during early development.
DNA was also screened for structural rearrangements (deletions and duplications) and point mutations in mtDNA.
The frequency of G6PD deficiency in the patients was not different from the incidence in a group of 16,219 controls.
Assoc., 273: 564-570, 1995;
This agrees well with the fact that cardiac and muscle symptoms are characteristic for patients with VLCAD deficiency.
Examination of plasma amino acids, an investigation not previously reported, revealed an extremely low plasma tryptophan level, a finding which may be important in view of the role of tryptophan in albumin synthesis..
The mutation causing juvenile Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) in two sibs of Lebanese-Maronite origin is described.
Mutations in APC are classically associated with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), a highly penetrant autosomal dominant disorder characterized by multiple intestinal polyps and, without surgical intervention, the development of colorectal cancer CRC.
Platelet aggregation responses of Sit(a) (+) individuals were diminished in response to collagen, indicating that the Thr(799)Met mutation affects the function of the GPIa/IIa complex..
Most of those carrying the allele trace their origins to the United Kingdom, Ireland, or Western Europe.
Molecular analysis of the PDS gene was performed in two consanguineous large families from Southern Tunisia comprising a total of 23 individuals affected with profound congenital deafness; the same missense mutation, L445W, was identified in all affected individuals.
The age at onset and severity of the disease show extreme variation, both within and between families.
Here we report the finding of the H63D and C282Y mutations on new haplotypes.
BRCA1 mutations cosegregating with breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility were identified in 16 families, including 1 family with a case of male breast cancer.
No association was found between the presence of bilateral breast cancer or the number of breast cancers in a family and the detection of a BRCA1 mutation, or between the position of the mutation in the BRCA1 gene and the presence of ovarian cancer in a family.
The patient was homozygous for this mutation, whereas the consanguineous parents and the siblings were heterozygous.
Fragile X syndrome is a common cause of mental retardation involving loss of expression of the FMR1 gene.
On the basis of the observation that aminoglycoside treatment can suppress stop codons in cultured cells, we tested the effect of gentamicin on cultured muscle cells from the mdx mouse - an animal model for DMD that possesses a premature stop codon in the dystrophin gene.
We postulate that this unstable DNA sequence is the molecular feature that underlies DM..
RESULTS: A statistically significant excess risk of cancer was seen among the patients with CHH (standardized incidence ratio 6.9, 95% confidence interval 2.3 to 16), which was mainly attributable to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma standardized incidence ratio 90, 95% confidence interval 18 to 264.
We therefore undertook the study of fasting plasma glycerol levels in a cohort of 1,056 unrelated men and women of French-Canadian descent.
No other gene alteration in TP53, P57KIP2, P15INK4B, and P16INK4A was observed.
We have performed linkage analysis with the DNA markers DXS52 and the clotting factor VIII gene (F8C), in several large families with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy ALD.
In vitro expression results are discrepant, but some individuals carrying S135L appear to exhibit GALT activity in some tissues.
Among peripheral blood leukocytes, MEFV expression was detected in neutrophils, eosinophils, and to varying degrees, monocytes.
Among 90 symptomatic mutation-positive individuals, 11 mutations accounted for 79% of carrier chromosomes.
Flow cytometry and recombinant DNA techniques have been used to obtain reagents for a molecular analysis of the Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
Because of absence of a distinctive facial appearance, the degree of mental retardation, and short stature, the initially considered clinical diagnosis of Cohen syndrome was withdrawn and a novel genetic entity was assumed.
For the in-frame deletions there were no significant differences.
We report on a girl with clinical features suggesting diastrophic dysplasia but with unusual radiographic features including severe platyspondyly, wide metaphyses, and fibular overgrowth, which are partially reminiscent of metatropic dysplasia.
This mutation segregates with HMS in four nuclear families.
Small (100-260 kb), nested deletions were characterized in DNA from two unrelated patients with familial adenomatous polyposis coli APC.
The positive control for DMT1 up-regulation was a murine model of dietary iron deficiency that demonstrated greatly increased levels of duodenal DMT1(IRE) mRNA.
Patient 1 was homozygous for a complex mutant allele containing two alterations, including a 194C>T transition (P65L) and 739A>C transversion (K247Q); in the case of P65L, the amino acid change does not reduce enzyme activity.
apoB DNA, RNA, and protein from two patients with homozygous hypobetalipoproteinemia (HBL) were evaluated and compared with normal individuals.
It is unclear whether the specific molecular changes that distinguish the D1 and D2 alleles account for the different activities.
Alkaptonuria (AKU; McKusick no. 203500) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by the lack of homogentisic acid oxidase activity.
This deletion caused a frameshift in translation, leading to a premature stop codon at the amino acid position 408.
Many individuals with AAPC develop relatively few colorectal polyps but are still at high risk for colorectal cancer.
The splice-site mutations led to exon skipping or utilization of cryptic acceptor-splice sites.
In colon carcinoma cells, loss of APC leads to the accumulation of betacatenin in the nucleus, where it binds to and activates the Tcf-4 transcription factor reviewed in 1 2.
The identification of two frequent PDS mutations will facilitate the molecular diagnosis of Pendred syndrome..
Classical phenylketonuria (PKU) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH.
Linkage studies in this family suggested a close linkage between the C2 deficiency gene and genes coding for B18, Dw2, and BfS antigens.
Kniest dysplasia is a moderately severe type II collagenopathy, characterized by short trunk and limbs, kyphoscoliosis, midface hypoplasia, severe myopia, and hearing loss.
In hereditary retinoblastoma, different epidemiological studies have indicated a preferential paternal transmission of mutant retinoblastoma alleles to offspring, suggesting the occurrence of a meiotic drive.
By using Northern blot analyses, we quantitated duodenal expression of both classes of DMT1 transcripts: one containing an iron responsive element (IRE), called DMT1(IRE), and one containing no IRE, called DMT1 non-IRE.
A common feature of these diseases is the loss of photoreceptor function, also seen in the retinal degeneration slow (rds or Prph2 Rd2/Rd2) mouse, which is homozygous for a null mutation in Prph2.
Caucasians, Blacks, and Mexican Hispanics and stratify by disease severity and ethnicity.
The propositus had a seminoma, his daughter a medulloblastoma, and one of his healthy cousins, a TP53 codon 292 missense point mutation (AAA-->ATA; Lys-->Ile) in the peripheral blood cells.
As expected, the molecular analyses indicate loss of one allele at the MCC and APC loci.
The high sequence identity between Hdh and the HD gene for approximately 200 bp 5' to the putative translation start site indicates that these sequences may play a role in regulating expression of the Huntington disease gene..
Although HPC1 accounts for only a small proportion of all families affected by hereditary prostate cancer, it appears to play a more prominent role in the subset of families with several members affected at an early age and with male-to-male disease transmission..
However, the large majority of families with early-onset breast cancer and with two or more cases of ovarian cancer are likely to be due to BRCA1 mutations..
By screening nearly one-half of the coding region of the APC gene in 44 tumors, somatic mutations were detected in three tumors: a missense mutation, a nonsense mutation, and a 5-base pair deletion resulting in a frame shift which causes truncation of the gene product.
This base change allowed us to create a non-radioactive genotyping assay for this allele..
In addition, somatic Inactivation of the VHL gene is frequent in sporadic renal cell carcinoma and haemangioblastoma.
A subset of germline APC mutations results in an attenuated FAP (AFAP) phenotype, in which patients develop fewer tumors and develop them at an older age.
We recently showed that transcriptional reactivation of FMR1 full mutations can be achieved by inducing DNA demethylation with 5-azadeoxycytidine 5-azadC.
However, the number of imprinted genes that contribute to PWS, and the range over which the imprinting signal acts to silence one copy of the gene in a parent-of-origin-specific manner, are unknown.
Combining these data and the results of LOH, more than 80% of tumors (14 adenomas and 39 carcinomas) had at least one mutation in the APC gene, of which more than 60% (9 adenomas and 23 carcinomas) had two mutations.
The (CAG)n block in the rat cDNA consists of just three interrupted units suggesting that a long polyglutamine stretch is not essential for the normal function of the ataxin-3 protein in rodents.
A strong candidate for the 17q-linked BRCA1 gene, which influences susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer, has been identified by positional cloning methods.
We investigated the expression pattern in the retina of both RS1 mRNA (using in situ hybridization with riboprobes) and retinoschisin using immunohistochemistry.
The mouse studies suggest a key role for the carboxyl terminal dystrophin isoform, Dp260, in retinal electrophysiology.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an autosomal recessive disorder of amino acid metabolism caused by a deficiency of the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH; phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase, EC 1.14.16.1.
We report on two clinically, neurologically normal relatives of a boy affected by adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD); they were found repeatedly to have the biochemical defect of an ALD hemizygote.
Long-term follow-up evaluation of C282Y homozygotes and H63D/C282Y compound heterozygotes will give an indication of the penetrance of the mutations..
Furthermore, differentiated retinoblastoma cells (Weri-Rb1 cells) were found to express RS1 mRNA and to release retinoschisin.
This syndrome has been recently described in Italian and French pedigrees.
Th data presented here together with those of previously published studies demonstrate a degree of heterogeneity of G6PD deficiency that is much higher than that in other regions of the world where G6PD deficiency is common..
However, the widespread use of BRCA1 testing has been limited to date by three principal concerns: the fear of loss of health and life insurance, the uncertain clinical value of a positive test result, and the current lack of an inexpensive and sensitive screening test for BRCA1 mutations.
BRCA1 mutations are rare in sporadic cancers, but loss of BRCA1 resulting from reduced expression or incorrect subcellular localization is postulated to be important in non-familial breast and ovarian cancers.
A screen of 20 individuals from the midwestern USA with non-syndromic hearing loss and dilated vestibular aqueducts identified three people (15%) with PDS mutations.
Two years later he was re-examined because we thought his features fitted the PWS-like phenotype associated with maternal UPD 14.
Germ-line mutations in the BRCA1 tumor-suppressor gene are associated with an increased susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer.
Mutations of the X-chromosome-linked PLP gene are lethal, identified first in the jimpy mouse and subsequently in patients with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease.
Besides the classic WAS phenotype, there is a group of patients with congenital X-linked thrombocytopenia (XLT) who have small platelets but only transient eczema, if any, and minimal immune deficiency.
The effects of the null mutation are more severe than the effects of the C282Y mutation.
More recently it has become apparent that elevated carrier frequencies for TSD also occur in several other ethnic groups, including Moroccan Jews, a subgroup of Sephardic Jews.
G6PD deficiency is heterogeneous in northern Algeria where autochtonous variants seem to prevail.
The patients with abnormal brain MRI at the onset of treatment showed clinical and neurophysiologic worsening.
Both carried a missense mutation within the NDP gene on chromosome Xp11.2.
Most sporadic colorectal cancers also have two APC mutations.
Mass spectrometric sequencing of components of this complex indicated that BRCA1 is associated with a SWI/SNF-related complex.
It is believed that the mutated allele of PAX6 produces an inactive protein and aniridia is caused due to genetic haploinsufficiency.
Homozygous mutant mice had no apparent abnormalities of skeletal muscle function, but developed lenticular opacities at a higher rate than controls.
We detected abnormal SSCP pattern in 73 samples.
Intestinal uptake of dietary glucose and galactose is mediated by the SGLT1 Na+/glucose cotransporter of the brush border.
Eleven different mutations were found, and all but one are likely to give rise to significant structural changes in the predicted protein.
Northern blot hybridisation showed highest expression in brain and skeletal muscle.
We have generated a polyclonal antibody against a peptide from a unique region within retinoschisin, which detects a protein of approximately 28 kDa in retinal samples reduced with dithiothreitol, but multimers sized >40 kDa under non-reducing conditions.
This could be because the 68 Val--Met mutation happened to arise in an A gene in the first instance, or because the 68 Val--Met mutation alone is not sufficient to cause G6PD deficiency.
To confirm these findings, a large linkage study was performed in twelve additional families segregating for Alstrom syndrome.
These findings demonstrate that GCH1 mutations must be considered even in patients with dystonic symptoms not typical of dopa-responsive dystonia..
Zbar, Cancer Surv., 25: 219-232, 1995.
Nineteen of the detected mutations were presumed to be novel, thus emphasizing the heterogeneity of the mutational spectrum in Korean FAP patients.
Thus, exon 5a appears to function as a molecular switch that specifies target genes.
Both penetrance and expression breast cancer vs.
The second, a C-->T transition at nucleotide 739 (Arg247Trp), has been shown by Triggs-Raine et al.
In addition, the frequency at which we have found PAX6 mutations suggests that lesions in PAX6 will account for most cases of aniridia..
beta-Glucuronidase mRNA was normal in affected cat testis by Northern blot analysis.
A rare X-linked dysmyelinating disorder of the central nervous system, Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD), has also been mapped to Xq21-q22, and is caused by mutations in the proteolipid protein gene (PLP) which encodes two myelin proteins, PLP and DM20.
We have re-examined an extended myotonic dystrophy (DM) family, previously described in 1955, in order to study the long term effects of anticipation in DM and in particular the implications for families affected by this disease.
Inherited mutations in BRCA1 predispose to breast and ovarian cancer, but the role of BRCA1 in sporadic breast and ovarian cancer has previously been elusive.
The presence of three frequent MEFV mutations in multiple Mediterranean populations strongly suggests a heterozygote advantage in this geographic region..
However, these patients develop colorectal tumors more frequently than does the general population because APC(AS9) is inactivated by mutations that do not inactivate the wild-type APC..
In yeast the DNA damage response and the replication-block checkpoint are mediated partly through the Cds1 kinase family.
Recurrent hSNF5/INI1 alterations were also observed in choroid plexus carcinomas and in a subset of central primitive neuroectodermal tumors (cPNETs) and medulloblastomas.
We screened patients with adrenoleukodystrophy/adrenomyeloneuropathy (ALD/AMN) from 20 kindreds for mutations in the ALD gene.
Seven of these 12 patients had elevated serum ferritin levels in 1994; 6 of the 7 had further increases in 1998, and 1 had a decrease, although the value remained elevated.
The human gene for histidase (histidine ammonia-lyase; HAL), the enzyme deficient in histidinemia, was assigned to human chromosome 12 by Southern blot analysis of human X mouse somatic cell hybrid DNA.
These results demonstrated that the Met(799) is responsible for formation of the Sit(a) alloantigenic determinants, whereas amino acid 505 (Lys or Glu) specifically controls the expression of Br(a) and Br(b) epitopes, respectively.
Our data are compatible with the hypothesis that the mutations tend to occur in a population-specific manner.
Latif et al., Science (Washington DC), 260: 1317-1320, 1993.
We report on a 4-year-old boy with Knobloch syndrome.
Furthermore, we propose that active transcription of these repeats in male and female germ cells may facilitate the homologous recombination process..
Though auditory anomalies have been observed in mice with dominant white spotting (W) due to KIT mutations, deafness is not typical in human piebaldism.
To determine the prevalence and characterize demographic, clinical, and genetic features of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) of late onset, all patients experiencing their first FMF attack at age 40 years or more were identified using the computerized registry of our FMF clinic, and then thoroughly interviewed and examined.
Endogenous APC colocalized with Asef in mouse colon epithelial cells and neuronal cells.
A fine resolution radiation hybrid map of 31 genes and markers has been constructed..
The clinical classification is increasingly being replaced by a genetic one.
The results showed that the amounts of the GCH1 mRNA were decreased to about 40% of the normal level in both patients and carriers.
ADCA type I patients from families segregating SCA3 share clinical features in common with those with Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), the gene of which maps to the same region.
In one of the commonest, G6PD Mediterranean, which is associated with favism among other clinical manifestations, a single amino acid replacement was found (serine----phenylalanine): it must be responsible for the decreased stability and the reduced catalytic efficiency of this enzyme.
Sulfatases, including GALNS, are members of a highly conserved gene family sharing an extensive sequence homology.
The transcripts encode putative proteins that are homologous to the MAGE proteins and NDN.
Sequential addition of an iron chelator and a reducing agent results in quantitative iron release with concomitant disassembly of the multimer, indicating that mYfh1p sequesters iron in an available form.
The six new aniridia cases reported here have mutations predicted to generate incomplete PAX6 proteins.
A major gene locus for PLS has been mapped to a 2.8 cM interval on chromosome 11q14.
A p95/nbs1 construct mutated at the ATM phosphorylation site abrogated an S-phase checkpoint induced by ionizing radiation in normal cells and failed to compensate for this functional deficiency in NBS cells.
All phenotypes were associated with mutations resulting in protein truncation or subtle amino acid changes.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type-3 or Machado-Joseph disease (SCA3/MJD) is a member of the CAG/polyglutamine repeat disease family.
There was no evidence of premature atherosclerosis in the families with CETP deficiency.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), the most frequently inherited ataxia, is due in the vast majority of cases to a large expansion of an intronic GAA repeat.
A gene, FGD1, altered in a patient with AAS phenotype, has been identified and found to encode a protein with homology to Rho/Rac guanine nucleotide exchange factors Rho/Rac GEF.
In patient fibroblasts, raising VLCAD activity to approximately 20% of normal control fibroblast activity raised palmitic acid beta-oxidation flux to the level found in control fibroblasts, which may offer important information for the rational design of future somatic gene therapy for VLCAD deficiency..
In one large family a single nucleotide (T) insertion into the donor splice site of exon C leads to two aberrantly spliced mRNAs both producing a premature stop codon.
He has vitreoretinal degeneration, high myopia, cataract, telecanthus, hypertelorism, and a high-arched palate.
Polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and subsequent sequencing revealed three distinct polymorphisms in the intron-exon boundary upstream from exon 6.
In a Turkish family with the diagnosis of Li-Fraumeni syndrome, we analyzed the mutation pattern of TP53, P57KIP2, P15INK4B, and P16INK4A in the peripheral blood, and loss of heterozygosity (homo/hemizygous deletion) pattern of TP53 and P15INK4B/P16INK4A in two tumor tissues.
A panel of patients with Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy (DMD and BMD) has been screened with the cDNA probes Cf56a and Cf23a, which detect exons in the central part of the DMD gene.
Restriction digestion following PCR amplification of ARG1 exon 2 confirmed the presence of the mutation..
Studies using DM patient materials have often produced confusing results.
The unstable CTG 5-30 motif is found uniquely in humans, although the flanking nucleotides are also present in mouse.
The expression of CYP27 has been mostly explored using cultured fibroblasts, prompting the examination of the transcripts from blood leucocytes as a simple and rapid technique.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is a progressive neuromuscular disorder which results from elongations of an unstable (CTG)n repeat, located in the 3' untranslated region of the DM gene.
RESULTS: Three patients with adult-onset cerebral ALD were identified as having large genomic rearrangements.
However, p95/nbs1 was phosphorylated on serine 343 in an ATM-dependent manner in vitro and in vivo after ionizing radiation.
Mutations in BRCA1 account for at least 80% of families with both breast and ovarian cancer, as well as some non-familial sporadic ovarian cancers.
Mice heterozygous for either mutation accumulate more iron than normal controls.
Among these patients, 49 different mutations-including 10 deletions, 2 insertions, 22 amino acid substitutions, 3 nonsense mutations, 9 splice-site defects, and 3 complex mutations-were found.
After sequencing, we identified microdeletions in 58% of cases, microinsertions in 17%, nonsense mutations in 8%, and missense mutations in 17%.
In addition, we report a previously unrecognized effect of Atm deficiency on development or maintenance of CD4 + 8(+) thymocytes.
One PAX6 mutation found in the PST region was associated with cataracts in an aniridia family.
Van der Woude syndrome (VWS) is an autosomal dominant disorder comprising cleft lip and/or cleft palate and lip pits.
While only 5% of sporadic Wilms' tumours have intragenic WT1 mutations,  90% of patients with the Denys-Drash syndrome (renal nephropathy, gonadal anomaly, predisposition to WT) carry constitutional intragenic WT1 mutations.
However, a comparison of the data suggested that both missense and synonymous mutations can occur at any coding sequence of the human germ line HPRT gene, but that a limited percentage of all the missense mutations cause disease.
Immunologic methods revealed trace amounts (17 mg/100 ml) of apparently normal serum albumin.
The clinical features were similar and there were no obvious stigmata of Langer-Giedion syndrome LGS.
In rat testis, a smaller transcript of 1.3 kb was identified.
The highest value of alpha was observed for the 48 families that met all three criteria peak HLOD = 2.25, P=.001, alpha=.29, with 1-LOD support interval.08-.53.
The propositus was found to have low quantities of an abnormal C6 which was both antigenically deficient and smaller in size than normal C6 (110,000 daltons compared with 140,000 daltons) and small quantities of apparently normal C7.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is caused by abnormal expansion of a polymorphic (CTG)n repeat, located in the DM protein kinase gene.
In an ongoing immunohistochemical study of beta-catenin expression in sporadic cases of tumor types that are associated with adenomatous polyposis coli, we observed increased beta-catenin levels in the cytoplasm and in the nuclei of three investigated hepatoblastomas.
We describe three novel mutations (R58fs, R330S, and H371R) and one common AKU mutation (M368V), detected by mutational and polymorphism analysis of the HGO gene in five Finnish AKU pedigrees.
All other tested new transcripts in the deletion region were expressed from both alleles.
Cleft palate, swelling of the ear pinna, and hitch hiker thumb were absent.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) has previously been mapped to the proximal short arm of the X chromosome between the DXS14 and DXS7 loci.
These three variants had a mild to moderate G6PD deficiency and were not associated with any clinical signs.
To facilitate the evaluation of ATM heterozygotes for susceptibility to other diseases, such as breast cancer, we have attempted to define the most common mutations and their frequencies in ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) homozygotes from 10 ethnic populations.
Ionizing radiation oxidizes macromolecules and causes tissue damage through the generation of reactive oxygen species ROS.
The ATP7B null mice display a gradual accumulation of hepatic copper that increases to a level 60-fold greater than normal by 5 months of age.
We analyzed the maternal status of 56 cases to determine the origin of both types of PLP mutation, since this is relevant to genetic counseling.
Sequence analyses demonstrated that each of these polymorphisms resulted from single base pair substitutions and that neither substitution would probably cause or contribute to the C5 deficiency.
This conformationally altered ataxin-3 is bound to the nuclear matrix.
Kaelin, Jr., Medicine (Baltimore), 76: 381-391, 1997;
Muscle expression of G6PD deficiency has been investigated in Mediterranean, Seattle-like and A-variants.
A family of domestic cats was found that exhibited clinical and biochemical abnormalities consistent with mucopolysaccharidosis VII, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by beta-glucuronidase deficiency.
A deletion of 8q24.11-q24.3 in a patient with multiple exostoses was found to overlap the distal end of the LGS deletion region, indicating that the EXT1 gene is distal to the TRPS1 gene and supporting the hypothesis that Langer-Giedion syndrome is due to loss of functional copies of both the TRPS1 and the EXT1 genes..
In many parts of the world the Mediterranean type of G6PD deficiency is prevalent.
Two missense Fas variants, not restricted to patients with ALPS, were identified.
The axonal chemoattractant netrin-1 guides spinal commissural axons by activating its receptor DCC Deleted in Colorectal Cancer.
Muscle computed tomography scanning revealed changes characteristic of muscle involvement.
These mutations all exhibit a high degree of association with specific restriction fragment-length polymorphism haplotypes at the PAH locus.
However, only a minority of familial gastric cancers can be accounted for by CDH1 mutations.
The age incidence curves for renal cell carcinoma and cerebellar haemangioblastoma in VHL disease were compatible with a single mutation model, whereas the age incidence curves for sporadic renal cell carcinoma and cerebellar haemangioblastoma suggested a two stage mutation process.
Our three models carrying different sizes of CTG repeat provide insight on the different factors modulating the CTG repeat instability..
We have identified a novel gene containing CAG repeats and mapped it to chromosome 14q32.1, the genetic locus for Machado-Joseph disease MJD.
The clinical use of molecular analyses in recessive disorders relies on the exact characterization of both mutant alleles in the affected patient.
One patient presented a mutation that results in a nucleotide change in exon 10 of the FGD1 gene (G2559>A) substituting a Gln for Arg in position 610.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disease characterised by thymine-uraciluria in homozygous deficient patients and has been associated with a variable clinical phenotype.
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) displays chromosomal rearrangements involving chromosome 17 and 22, which fuse the collagen type Ialpha1 (COLIA1) gene to the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) B-chain (PDGFB) gene.
In addition, a significant excess risk of basal cell carcinoma was seen standardized incidence ratio 35, 95% confidence interval 7.2 to 102.
The patient, a 6-year-old Japanese male, was noticed to have hemolytic anemia soon after birth, and a diagnosis of G6PD deficiency was made at the age of 2.
This heritable-deletion mouse model will be particularly useful for the identification of the etiological genes and mechanisms, phenotypic basis, and investigation of therapeutic approaches for PWS..
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a dominantly inherited condition predisposing to colorectal cancer.
One child with heterozygous C3 deficiency was found to have membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis; proteinuria and/or microscopical haematuria was present in all three homozygous C3-deficient children.
Despite discovery of the causative gene, a molecular basis for the diverse clinical presentations remains to be elucidated.
N-terminal mutant huntingtin also binds to synaptic vesicles and inhibits their glutamate uptake in vitro.
Second, CTG expansion may establish a region of heterochromatin 3' of the repeat sequence and decrease SIX5 transcription.
A somatic mutation in the X linked PIGA gene is responsible for the deficiency of glycosyl phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins on blood cells from patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.
A comparison of the clinical manifestations of the present five patients and reported CGKD or Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patients with DNA deletion suggests the existence of a certain gene responsible for gonadotropin deficiency GTD.
Angelman syndrome (AS) is caused by chromosome 15q11-q13 deletions of maternal origin, by paternal uniparental disomy (UPD) 15, by imprinting defects, and by mutations in the UBE3A gene.
A PCR-based diagnostic test, which detects an NlaIII site generated by the mutation, revealed a frequency among enzyme-defined carriers of 9/64 14%.
Multipoint linkage analysis of choroideremia (TCD) and seven X chromosomal restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) was carried out in 18 Finnish TCD families.
An anonymous DNA probe, dc12, present in one of the YACs and in a patient with a submicroscopic deletion which includes MAOA and MAOB but not L1.28, serves as a flanking marker centromeric to the disease gene.
Mutations spanning the emerin gene have been identified in patients with EDMD.
We investigated the mechanism for AFAP in patients carrying a mutant APC allele APC AS9 that has a mutation in the alternatively spliced region of exon 9.
The Sit(a) alloantigen is of low frequency (1/400) in the German population.
Inherited G6PD deficiency is associated with either episodic hemolytic anemia (triggered by fava beans or other agents) or life-long hemolytic anemia.
CONCLUSIONS: Lorenzo's oil therapy had no effect on patients with evidence of inflammatory brain lesions.
Although both PLS and HMS share the cardinal features of PPK and severe periodontitis, a number of additional findings are reported in HMS including arachnodactyly, acro-osteolysis, atrophic changes of the nails, and a radiographic deformity of the fingers.
These data suggest that Kniest dysplasia results from shorter type II collagen monomers, and support the hypothesis that alteration of a specific COL2A1 domain, which may span from exons 12 to 24, leads to the Kniest dysplasia phenotype..
Fractionation and immunochemical experiments indicate that this novel conformation of intranuclear ataxin-3 is not due to proteolysis, suggesting instead that association with nuclear protein(s) alters the structure of full-length ataxin-3 which exposes the polyglutamine domain.
We assembled the YAC clones into overlapping sets by hybridizing them to a large number of DNA probes from the HD region, including the STSs.
Hypotonia, chorioretinal dystrophy, and myopia were also identified.
We report a rare case of paternally transmitted congenital myotonic dystrophy DM.
The difference of the WASPdim population in monocytes and lymphocytes observed in WAS carriers suggests that WASP plays a more critical role in the development of lymphocytes than in that of monocytes.
Thus, APRT-HPRT-deficient mice, which are devoid of any purine salvage pathways, show no novel phenotype and are not a model for the behavioral abnormalities associated with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome as previously suggested..
At 7 years of age he was referred to us by the paediatrician because of symptoms of Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
Identification of BRCA1 should facilitate early diagnosis of breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility in some individuals as well as a better understanding of breast cancer biology..
This observation may provide insight into the role of CTLA-4 in humans..
The transcription initiation site has been assigned to a residue 163 bp upstream from the translation initiation triplet by primer extension analysis.
In addition, pedigree analyses suggest the occurrence of an autosomal recessive variant.
Expression of the fusion protein led to morphological transformation and increased growth rate of these cells.
Mutations in atm and p53 cause the human cancer-associated diseases ataxia-telangiectasia and Li-Fraumeni syndrome, respectively.
VCFS/DGS is the most common syndrome associated with 22q11 rearrangements.
This study also provided evidence for the pathological nature of amino acid changes in APC associated with both FAP and non-FAP colorectal cancer patients..
We report a G--A transition at nucleotide 431 of the proteolipid protein gene (PLP) results in a nonsense codon in a family with an unusual form of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease PMD.
No ATM protein was detected by western blotting in any AT cell line in which splicing mutations were identified.
At a de novo frequency of approximately.67-1/10,000 births, these deletions represent a common structural chromosome change in the human genome.
Thus, gene-specific mechanisms were selected to overexpress PAX3-FKHR and PAX7-FKHR in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, presumably due to differences in regulation between the wild-type loci.
We report familial adenomatous polyposis coli (FAPC) with epidermoid cysts, osteomata, and areas of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (CHRPEs) in a male patient and his maternal aunt, both of whom suffered a mild to moderate degree of mental handicap.
Increasing evidence, provided by others, for the nonrandom involvement of 14q in African-type Burkitt's lymphoma and other lymphoid neoplasms further strengthens this hypothesis..
A DNA-based test for the HFE gene is commercially available, but its place in the diagnosis of hemochromatosis is still being evaluated.
An initial inguinal lymph node biopsy surprisingly revealed Kaposi sarcoma.
Notable among this group were the growth factor gene Igf2 and its binding protein Igfbp5.
Family screening in the initial cohort identified 18 men from five families with severe hyperglycerolemia (values above 2.0 mmol/liter) and demonstrated an X-linked pattern of inheritance.
The specific characteristics of our population of patients may explain why such a high frequency was not found in other series..
The Fas/Apo-1 receptor plays a crucial role in the regulation of apoptosis, as demonstrated by lymphoproliferation in MRL-lpr/lpr mice and by the recently described autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) in humans, both of which are due to mutations in the Fas gene.
Apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype, in turn, is known to influence AO in Alzheimer disease, rendering the APOE gene a likely candidate to affect AO in other neurological diseases too.
HFE-/- mice also demonstrated an increase in duodenal DMT1(IRE) mRNA (average 7.7-fold), despite their elevated transferrin saturation and hepatic iron content.
We have expressed an untranslated CUG repeat in an unrelated mRNA in transgenic mice.
Analyzing the expression level of the SCA3 gene in several human brain sections revealed no significant higher mRNA level in regions predominantly affected in MJD.
We performed a linkage study of chromosome 22 in 200 families with AS affected sibling-pairs.
The relationship between abnormal color vision and adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) was investigated in 27 AMN patients and 31 age-matched controls by using the Farnsworth-Munsell 100 Hue test.
Heterozygous mutations in the CD95 (APO-1/Fas) receptor occur in most individuals with autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) and dominantly interfere with apoptosis by an unknown mechanism.
We compared G6PD activity among different mutations, without discovering significant differences between them..
Upon irradiation, BRCA1 was detected in discrete foci in the nucleus, which colocalize with hRad50.
METHODS AND RESULTS: When expressed alone in Xenopus oocytes, T1620M exhibited no persistent currents, in contrast to the LQT3 mutant channels, but the midpoint of steady-state inactivation V 1/2 was significantly shifted toward more positive potentials than for wild-type hH1.
We present models to explain how the LCR22s can mediate different homologous recombination events, thereby generating a number of rearrangements that are associated with congenital anomaly disorders.
High level expression of the nm23-H1 gene, which encodes for a nucleoside diphosphate kinase, has been found to correlate with diminished metastasis in some tumors but not in others.
The FRDA gene encodes a widely expressed 210-aa protein, frataxin, which is located in mitochondria and is severely reduced in FRDA patients.
(1992) to be a clinically benign pseudodeficient" allele associated with reduced enzyme activity against artificial substrate. "
X-linked recessive Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is an inherited muscle disorder characterized by the clinical triad of progressive wasting of humero-peroneal muscles, early contractures of the elbows, Achilles tendons and postcervical muscles, and cardiac conduction block with a high risk of sudden death.
Transcription of rsca3 was detected in most rat tissues including brain.
Database searches and analysis of available genomic DNA sequence from the region revealed the presence of the fibroblast growth factor homologous factor gene, FHF2, within the duplication breakpoint interval.
The sibling recurrence risk ratio for the disease is 63 and heritability assessed in twins >90%.
These data support the model for HH in which HFE mutations lead to inappropriately low crypt cell iron, with resultant stabilization of DMT1(IRE) mRNA, up-regulation of DMT1, and increased absorption of dietary iron..
The END-repeat units are derived from large genomic duplications of a novel gene (HERC2), many copies of which are transcriptionally active in germline tissues.
HFE-deficient animals were analyzed for a comprehensive set of metabolic and immune parameters.
These results suggest that the mutation of the APC gene also plays an important role during the carcinogenesis of at least some gastric cancers..
To investigate mutation origin and mutation-specific phenotypes due to BRCA1, we constructed a haplotype of nine polymorphic markers within or immediately flanking the BRCA1 locus in a set of 61 breast/ovarian cancer families selected for having one of six recurrent BRCA1 mutations.
Subsequently PAX6 intragenic mutations were demonstrated in Smalleye, a mouse mutant which is an animal model for aniridia, and six human aniridia patients.
Considerable genetic heterogeneity in G6PD was found in the Bulgarian population-14 G6PD variants isolated from 117 hemizygous carriers of G6PD deficiency.
Recent studies have demonstrated that this trinucleotide motif forms part of the last, 3' untranslated exon of a gene which potentially encodes multiple protein isoforms of a serine/threonine protein kinase myotonic dystrophy protein kinase, DM-PK.
These findings suggest a possible mechanism which may have juxtaposed the three sites and mediated sequence-specific breakage and recombination between nonhomologous chromosomes in male meiosis..
The amount of p19/nm23 increased in normal lymphocytes in response to mitotic stimulation and paralleled the increase in DNA synthesis.
To determine the extent of heterogeneity of G6PD, we have studied several different Indian populations by screening for G6PD deficiency, followed by molecular analysis of deficient alleles.
This observation indicates that the WT1 exon 9 mutation affecting 394Arg demonstrated in over one-half of the patients with the Denys-Drash syndrome may exhibit incomplete penetrance.
All but two of these previously described mutations cause in-frame deletions in type II collagen, either by small deletions in the gene or splice site alterations.
Clinically, affected hemizygous males have angiokeratoma, severe acroparesthesia, renal failure, and vasculopathy of the heart and brain.
Ataxia-telangiectasia is a rare genetic disorder associated with immune deficiency, chromosome instability, and a predisposition to lymphoid malignancy.
It will also have important implications for genetic counseling, particularly for more accurately predicting recurrence risks of clefts among the offspring of patients with VWS..
No well-characterized intragenic rearrangement of APC has been described, and the prevalence of this type of mutation in FAP patients is not clear.
By Southern blot analysis we have mapped ten different polymorphic DNA loci relative to the position of the deletion and the choroideremia locus TCD.
In yeast mitochondria, native mYfh1p exists as monomer and a higher-order species with a molecular weight >600,000.
Pendrin is closely related to a family of sulfate transport proteins that includes the rat sulfate-anion transporter (encoded by Sat-1; 29% amino acid sequence identity), the human diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter (encoded by DTD; 32%) and the human sulfate transporter 'downregulated in adenoma' encoded by DRA; 45%.
The control group consisted of 40 consecutive FMF patients, who arrived at the FMF clinic for their regular follow-up visit and were 40 years of age or older at the time of the examination.
We identified a KIT gene mutation in a proband with classic autosomal dominant piebaldism.
Familial direct insertions should be considered as a cause of recurrent microdeletion syndromes..
The similar pattern of germline mutation in all ethnic groups studied to date provides additional data compatible with the inference that endogenous processes predominate in germline mutations..
Kniest dysplasia is a moderately severe chondrodysplasia phenotype that results from mutations in the gene for type II collagen, COL2A1.
Linkage disequilibrium mapping in isolated populations provides a powerful tool for fine structure localization of disease genes.
Despite its widespread expression, mutant huntingtin induces selective neuronal loss in striatal neurons.
Germline mutations in the tumor suppressor gene, BRCA1, predispose individuals to breast and ovarian cancers.
We now report two mutant alleles in this Pennsylvania Dutch kindred, and one polymorphism.
Based on previous knowledge about mutation-phenotype associations, 78 of the mutations could be assigned to one of four classes of severity severe PKU, moderate PKU, mild PKU, and mild hyperphenylalaninemia MHP.
Heterozygosity for the most frequent poor metabolizer allele (CYP2D6*4) was not associated with increased susceptibility to AS.
The P65L mutation locates 11 bases upstream of a splice donor site of intron 3.
In addition Hmgic-/- mice have a deficiency in fat tissue.
These results suggest that the APC-Asef complex may regulate the actin cytoskeletal network, cell morphology and migration, and neuronal function..
The WASP gene has been recently cloned from Xp11.23 and shown to be mutated in three patients with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome WAS.
Gaucher disease (GD) is an inherited deficiency of beta-glucocerebrosidase EC 3.1.2.45, gene symbol GBA.
We have screened the remaining five families for point mutations.
Several different missense mutations have been identified in patients with FHM.
One variant was identified in intron 5 (IVS5-10C>G), which did not segregate with BFIC and was observed in 9.2% controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Although BRCA-associated hereditary ovarian cancers in this population have surgical and pathological characteristics similar to those of sporadic cancers, advanced-stage hereditary cancer patients survive longer than nonhereditary cancer patients.
Each multimer consists of approximately 60 subunits and can sequester >3,000 atoms of iron.
Three sisters were shown to suffer from fish-eye disease (FED), a disorder which is caused by mutations in the gene coding for lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase LCAT.
MEFV was also expressed in the monocytic cell lines U937 and THP-1.
In Finland, there are more than 120 living CHM patients belonging to eight apparently unrelated pedigrees.
Emerin stayed on the cytoplasmic surface of the nuclear lamina, even after detergent treatment that solubilizes membrane lipids and washes out membrane proteins.
Congenital afibrinogenemia is a rare, autosomal, recessive disorder characterized by the complete absence of detectable fibrinogen.
A DNA marker C7, localised Xp21.1-Xp21.3, has been studied in kindreds segregating for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and Becker muscular dystrophy BMD.
Polymerase chain reaction amplification of VLCAD mRNA and genomic exons defined the molecular defects in two patients with VLCAD deficiency who presented with unexplained cardiac arrest and cardiomyopathy.
Germline mutations are the major source of genetic variation that allows a species to evolve over time but at the cost of Mendelian disease and genetic predisposition to multifactorial diseases.
The psiGLDC gene has no intron and shares 97.5% homology with the coding region of functional GLDC, suggesting that psiGLDC is a processed pseudogene that arose from the GLDC transcript about 4-8 million years ago.
Both the A-T phenotype and the similarity of the ATM protein to other DNA-damage sensors suggests a role for ATM in biochemical pathways involved in the recognition, signalling and repair of DNA double-strand breaks DSBs.
The frequencies of the G6PD A and of the G6PD A- genes in parts of Africa are both about 0.2.
A new CT pattern was observed in 2 patients with adrenoleukodystrophy ALD.
These findings suggest a thalassemia"-like mutation for this disorder.. "
Faithfully mimicking human hemochromatosis, mice homozygous for this deletion develop iron overload, characterized by a higher plasma iron content and a raised transferrin saturation as well as an elevated hepatic iron load.
In all three cases, there is a strong family history of breast, ovarian, or other cancers possibly related to a BRCA1 defect and family members showed a high concordance of cancer incidence with the presence of R841W.
In sensorineural deafness, dystonia, and mental retardation, mutations were found in the gene DDP coding for a polypeptide of unknown function.
There are strong parallels between the pattern of radiosensitivity, chromosomal instability and cancer predisposition in A-T patients and that in patients with Nijmegen breakage syndrome NBS.
We have examined 22 families with at least one case of male breast cancer for linkage to the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer locus, BRCA1, on chromosome 17q.
Dominant myotonia congenita (Thomsen's disease) is linked to CLCN1, the gene encoding the major muscle chloride channel, localized on chromosome 7q35.
We describe the first cases, to our knowledge, of C9 deficiency in Europe that were detected in a Swiss family, of which two members--one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal C9 levels--experienced bacterial meningitis.
We report new mutations in exon 9 of the WT1 gene that did not alter the ratio of +/- KTS splice isoforms in two unrelated patients with Frasier syndrome FS.
Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) is a disorder of lymphocyte homeostasis and immunological tolerance.
Mutation or deletion of the PAX6 gene underlies many cases of aniridia.
Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) is an X-linked disease affecting 1/20,000 males either as cerebral ALD in childhood or as adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) in adults.
Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated that the functional replacement of ALDP by ALDRP was not due to stabilization of the mutated ALDP itself.
The patient was shown to be heterozygous for DNA markers in the C6, C7 and C9 region of chromosome 5 and therefore appears to be a compound heterozygote for two uncharacterized C9 deficiency genes.
The seven other siblings were heterozygous for C7 deficiency, while the paternal aunt had a normal C7 level.
The H63D mutation is older and does not occur on such a large extended haplotype, the haplotype in this case extending </=700 kb.
OBJECTIVES: A Japanese family with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) was investigated for a sequence alteration in the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene CYP27.
Among 910 sperm analyzed, the allele linked to the disease chromosome was detected in 50.3% of the samples and the allele linked to the normal chromosome was found in 49.6% of the sperm.
Similar abnormalities were found in Foxc2 (+/-)mice, but no disease-associated mutations were identified in the human homolog FKHL14 in 32 ARA patients.
Moreover, MAGEL2 / Magel2 are expressed only from the paternal allele in brain, suggesting a potential role in the aetiology of PWS and its mouse model, respectively..
The protein defective in NBS, nibrin (encoded by NBS1), forms a complex with MRE11 and RAD50 refs 1,2.
A pair of female monozygotic (MZ) twins, heterozygous carriers for a deletion in the DMD gene and discordant for the clinical manifestations of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, were analyzed by molecular studies, in situ hybridization, and methylation pattern of X chromosomes to search for opposite X inactivation as an explanation of their clinical discordance.
Here we present four novel PAX6 missense mutations, two in association with atypical phenotypes: ectopia pupillae (displaced pupils) and congenital nystagmus (searching gaze), and two in association with more recognizable aniridia phenotypes.
We therefore determined APOE genotype and normal CAG repeat length in the HD gene for 138 HD patients who were previously analysed with respect to CAG repeat length.
CONCLUSIONS: The reproductive outcome in maternal phenylketonuria is dependent on prenatal metabolic control and postnatal environmental circumstances.
Here we report a PWS family in which the father is mosaic for an IC deletion on his paternal chromosome.
Several novel as well as previously reported uncharacterized variants were also identified, some of which were associated with a family history of cancer.
Eleven of the 16 homozygous subjects underwent liver biopsy; 3 had hepatic fibrosis, and 1, who had a history of excessive alcohol consumption, had cirrhosis and mild microvesicular steatosis.
Previous studies have demonstrated that a dose-dependent loss of Dm15 (the mouse DMPK homologue) in mice produces a partial DM phenotype characterized by decreased development of skeletal muscle force and cardiac conduction disorders.
In the autoinhibited complex, intramolecular interactions with the GTPase-binding domain occlude residues of the C terminus that regulate the Arp2/3 actin-nucleating complex.
Our findings give evidence of a gonadal mosaicism in the unaffected mother.
To define the molecular defects causing SLS, we performed mutation analysis of the FALDH gene in probands from 63 kindreds with SLS.
Electrophoresis of fetal-tissue extracts also demonstrated the absence of the A form of acid lipase.
All of the patients with SLS were found to carry mutations.
Mutations in PAX6 are responsible for human aniridia and have also been found in patients with Peter's anomaly, with congenital cataracts, with autosomal dominant keratitis, and with isolated foveal hypoplasia.
Although hereditary TP53 mutation is very rare in different human cancers, it has been frequently reported in Li-Fraumeni syndrome.
The seizures usually spontaneously cease after one year without treatment, leaving no neurological abnormalities.
Since sporadic variants of G6PD causing HNSHA show no special racial predilection, the diagnosis of G6PD deficiency should always be considered in patients with this syndrome..
We screened 49 potential FAP families and identified 26 different germline APC mutations in 30 families.
Partial gene deletion is the major cause of mutation leading to Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and Becker muscular dystrophy BMD.
In Sardinians with the beta 0-thalassemia trait, parasite growth was normal except when G6PD deficiency occurred together with the thalassemia trait.
Chromosomes of lymphocytes from one of the patients were studied before and after the onset of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Previous study disclosed that flow cytometric analysis of intracellular WASP expression (FCM-WASP analysis) in lymphocytes was useful for the diagnosis of WAS patients.
Assay of fetal-skin fibroblasts with 14C-triolein, as well as with artificial substrates, showed marked deficiency of acid lipase activity.
Both factors depend on the intellectual resources of the mother with PKU.
Pendred syndrome comprises congenital sensorineural hearing loss, thyroid goiter, and positive perchlorate discharge test.
Clinically, all patients with VLCAD deficiency exhibited cardiac disease.
To determine the origins of these two mutations in the Cajun population, the TSD carrier status was enzymatically determined for 90 members of four of the six families, and extensive pedigrees were constructed for all carriers.
This finding, in association with 3 other instances of single breaks at 11p13 and aniridia, supports the assignment of AN2 to 11p13..
To this end, YACs identified by the MCC gene were screened across a chromosome 5-specific cosmid library to provide a source of DNA probes for genomic scanning.
Genetic analysis and the Cre- loxP system were used to clearly demonstrate that the myoblast fusion defect could be rescued by eliminating the expression of the mutant DMPK 3'-UTR transcript.
Sequencing of the FAS gene revealed a 20-nucleotide duplication in the last exon affecting the cytoplasmic signaling domain.
Two recent studies have suggested the involvement of serum amyloid A (SAA) and P (APCS) genes in familial Mediterranean fever MEF.
When used in conjunction with an existing primer set, these two multiplex reactions detect about 98% of deletions in patients with Duchenne or Becker muscular dystrophy DMD, BMD.
Progeny of the homozygous mutant females demonstrated neurological abnormalities and growth retardation characteristic of copper deficiency.
Mutations and duplications of this gene are associated with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease PMD.
To identify the genetic basis of C9 deficiency, we developed an approach using exon-specific PCR and direct DNA sequencing.
Gene loci in the X-linked recessive forms have been assigned to Xq13.1 in the X-linked dystonia parkinsonism syndrome and to Xq22 in X-linked sensorineural deafness, dystonia, and mental retardation.
The insertion, into the NTS, of 14 additional amino acids encoded by exon 5a abolishes the DNA-binding activity of the NTS and unmasks the DNA-binding ability of the CTS.
To determine whether PDS mutations in individuals with Pendred syndrome differ functionally from PDS mutations in individuals with non-syndromic hearing loss, we compared three common Pendred syndrome allele variants (L236P, T416P and E384G), with three PDS mutations reported only in individuals with non-syndromic hearing loss V480D, V653A and I490L/G497S.
There is increasing evidence that there exist germ-line variants of the APC gene that predispose to the development of multiple colorectal adenomas and carcinoma, but without the florid phenotype of classical FAP, and possibly with importance for colorectal cancer risk in the general population..
To investigate the genetic history of these mutations in the AJ population, short tandem repeat (STR) markers were used to map a 9.3-cM region containing the GBA locus and to genotype 261 AJ N370S chromosomes, 60 European non-Jewish N370S chromosomes, and 62 AJ 84GG chromosomes.
By electrophysiological tests and magnetic resonance imaging it was determined that two patients had cerebral ALD, one had adrenomyeloneuropathy with cerebral involvement, and two had preclinical AMN.
Here, we report the identification and characterization of the chromosome 3-derived translocation partner gene, which we have designated LPP lipoma preferred partner gene.
In summary, our results show frequent involvement of the p16 gene in familial melanoma and confirm the role of the CDK4 gene as a melanoma-predisposing gene..
This was the first reported subject homozygous for the CETP deficiency who also demonstrated atherosclerotic symptoms.
The murine gene contains ten exons with a coding sequence of 2304 bp, while the rat homolog has nine exons with a coding sequence of 2253 bp.
Three children are reported with typical cat eye syndrome (CES) and three more children with partial CES because of absence of coloboma, in which the supernumerary marker chromosome was studied by FISH.
Our results suggest that SIX5 deficiency contributes to the cataract phenotype in myotonic dystrophy, and that myotonic dystrophy represents a multigenic disorder..
This is the first demonstration of a mutation causing VLCAD deficiency.
This supports the previously described hypothesis that the large Northern Finnish choroideremia pedigrees, comprising a total of over 80 living patients representing more than a fifth of all TCD patients described worldwide, carry the same mutation.
From data collected in a North American Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) heterozygote screening program, the TSD carrier frequency among 46,304 Jewish individuals was found to be .0324 1 in 31 individuals.
The abnormal enzymes are respectively designated as GdDcbrousse-like,, GdGallura and GdAgrigento..
Atypical or variant forms of well-known chondrodysplasias may pose diagnostic problems.
His mother was 44 years of age at the time of his birth.
To advance on both of these avenues, we report the deletion of HFE alpha1 and alpha2 putative ligand binding domains in vivo.
Inherited mutations in the BRCA1 gene are associated with a high risk of breast and ovarian cancer in some families.
In this paper we describe four additional PAX6 point mutations in aniridia patients, both sporadic and familial.
The results confirm that the C282Y substitution was the main mutation involved in hemochromatosis, accounting for 85% of carrier chromosomes, whereas the H63D substitution represented 39% of the HH chromosomes that did not carry the C282Y mutation.
We tested sulfate transport in thyrocytes obtained from Pendred syndrome patients and found that it was not defective.
Mxi1 is thought to negatively regulate Myc function and may therefore be a potential tumor suppressor gene.
One allele, reported originally in a French TSD patient (Akli et al., 1991), is a GT-->AT transition at the donor splice-site of intron 9.
Given the complex behavioral phenotype in fragile X patients and the mild phenotype previously reported for the Fmr1 knockout mouse, we performed a more thorough evaluation of the Fmr1 knockout phenotype using additional behavioral assays that had not previously been reported for this animal model.
Because of X chromosome inactivation, female offspring are mosaic for cells that express or lack GPI-linked proteins.
The paired domain is composed of two distinct DNA-binding subdomains, the N-terminal subdomain (NTS) and the C-terminal subdomain (CTS), which bind respective consensus DNA sequences.
There is mounting evidence to suggest that Friedreich ataxia is the result of accumulation of iron in mitochondria leading to excess production of free radicals, which then results in cellular damage and death.
Moreover, a high level of instability, increasing with age, can be observed in tissues and in sperm.
In fact, the lipoprotein profile of persons with CETP deficiency is potentially antiatherogenic and may be associated with an increased life span..
We have determined the parental origin of the retained allele in nine retinoblastoma tumours from eight unrelated non-familial cases by using RB1-linked genetic markers.
First-degree relatives with a PROS1 gene defect had a 5.0-fold higher risk of thrombosis (95% confidence interval, 1. 5-16.8) than those with a normal PROS1 gene and no other recognized thrombophilic defect.
Positional cloning experiments have resulted recently in the isolation of a candidate gene for Norrie disease (pseudoglioma; NDP), a severe X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder.
In contrast, a different conserved haplotype at these markers was identified on the 84GG chromosomes, which was unique to the AJ population.
These findings suggest that selection against the WAS gene occurs in platelets and thymus-derived T lymphocytes and that the defects associated with WAS expressed in these cell-types may be implicated in the genesis of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome..
By expressing chimeric reporter constructs containing a reporter gene fused to a human DMPK 3'-UTR, we identified both cis and trans effects that are mediated by the DM mutation.
Alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma is an aggressive pediatric cancer of striated muscle characterized in 60% of cases by a t 2;13 q35;q14.
Most fragile X syndrome patients have expansion of a CGG (n)sequence with >200 repeats (full mutation) in the FMR1 gene responsible for this condition.
The patient inherited this mutation from his mother.
Thus, potentiation of netrin activity by inhibitors may result from stabilization of DCC on the axons, and proteolytic activity may regulate axon migration by controlling the number of functional extracellular axon guidance receptors..
Mutations in the BRCA1 (ref. 1) tumour suppressor gene are found in almost all of the families with inherited breast and ovarian cancers and about half of the families with only breast cancer.
Of the patients with PKU, 92% had been treated during childhood.
This response is abrogated in A-T cells that either do not express ATM protein or express near full-length mutant protein.
Both had an interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 5 del 5 q22q23.2.
Here the APC gene product is shown to bind through its armadillo repeat domain to a Rac-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF), termed Asef.
We have mapped the gene encoding the small nuclear RNA associated polypeptide SmN (SNRPN) to human chromosome 15q12 and a processed pseudogene SNRPNP1 to chromosome region 6pter-p21.
Thus, altered ion homeostasis within the lens may contribute to cataract formation.
We generated all six full-length mouse cDNAs that result from combinations of these three major splicing events and show that their transfection into cells in culture leads to production of four different approximately 74 kDa full-length (heart-, skeletal muscle- or brain-specific) and two C-terminally truncated approximately 68 kDa (smooth muscle-specific) isoforms.
These data uncover an essential role of BRCA1 in maintaining genetic stability through the regulation of centrosome duplication and the G2-M checkpoint and provide a molecular basis for the role of BRCA1 in tumorigenesis..
Cognitive performance (IQ) was also significantly related to genotype.
In order to further characterize the dynamics of DM CTG repeat somatic instability, we have studied repeat length changes over time in 111 myotonic dystrophy patients with varying clinical severity and CTG repeat size over time intervals of 1-7 years.
Aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) is a recessive autosomally inherited lysosomal storage disorder due to deficiency of the enzyme aspartylglucosaminidase AGA.
Of the two mutations that are novel, one alters the same residue (680) as a previously known mutation, and the other (P369S) is located in exon 3.
Additionally, one of the asymptomatic relatives (a girl 8 months old at the time of study) was identified as carrier of the same mutation and developed the disease 3 months later.
Heterozygous mutations encoding abnormal forms of the death receptor Fas dominantly interfere with Fas-induced lymphocyte apoptosis in human autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome.
Thus, X-linked retinoschisis is caused by abnormalities in a putative secreted photoreceptor protein and is the first example of a secreted photo-receptor protein associated with a retinal dystrophy..
In the present work these three cases, each with severe neonatal jaundice, are reported.
Fmr1 knockout mice exhibit a phenotype with some similarities to humans, such as macroorchidism and behavioral abnormalities.
Indeed, within the well defined, mainly peptide-binding, MHC class I family of molecules, HFE seems to perform an unusual yet essential function.
We postulate that the END repeats flanking 15q11-q13 mediate homologous recombination resulting in deletion.
The RB1 gene from 12 human retinoblastoma tumors has been analyzed exon-by-exon with the single-strand conformation polymorphism technique.
The breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene BRCA1 encodes a zinc finger protein of unknown function.
A lod score of 13 was calculated for linkage between C2 deficiency and HLA-B at a maximum likelihood value of the recombinant fraction of 0.04. 18 families with 21 informative matings for both properdin Factor B allotype and HLA-B were found.
Because of the high frequency of these particular haplotypes in Bulgaria, Italy, and Turkey, it appears to be one of the more frequent defects in the PAH gene causing classical phenylketonuria in this part of Europe.
Metachromatic Leukodystrophy (MLD) is a neurodegenerative disease in which the lysosomal enzyme, Aryl sulfatase A (ARSA) is deficient.
Characterization of spontaneous deletion events mapped the inhibitory effect to the (CTG) (n) expansion and/or the 3' end of the DMPK 3'-UTR.
In Caucasians, repeat expansions in the MJD1 gene have also been found in patients with the clinically distinct autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 SCA3.
Three were at nucleotide position 1180 resulting in an arg > trp amino acid change.
Using methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes, we characterized the methylation pattern on the 5' side of the CTG repeat in the DMPK gene of normal individuals and of patients affected with myotonic dystrophy, showing expansions of the repetitive sequence.
Induction by IFN-gamma occurred rapidly and was resistant to cycloheximide.
The identification of Dmd mRNA in brain raises the possibility of a relation between human Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene expression and the mental retardation found in some DMD males.
METHODS: Eight patients with adult-onset ALD underwent clinical examination, brain and spine MRI, and SEP and MEP studies before and after 3 years of Lorenzo's oil dietary therapy.
These results explain the decreased ferritin levels seen in our HeLa cell system and demonstrate the specific control of HFE over the Tf-mediated pathway of iron uptake.
In the family with the missense mutation the phenotype was milder.
The complex is necessary for the stabilization of the discs, which are renewed constantly throughout life, and which contain the visual pigments necessary for photon capture.
Chromosomal translocations in human lipomas frequently create fusion transcripts encoding high mobility group (HMG) I-C DNA-binding domains and C-terminal sequences from different presumed transcription factors, suggesting a potential role for HMG I-C in the development of lipomas.
von Willebrand disease (vWD), the most common inherited bleeding disorder in humans, can result from either a quantitative or a qualitative defect in the adhesive glycoprotein, von Willebrand factor vWF.
The proteolipid protein gene (PLP) is normally present at chromosome Xq22.
In 1994, we obtained blood samples for the determination of serum transferrin saturation and ferritin levels and the presence or absence of the C282Y mutation and the H63D mutation (which may contribute to increased hepatic iron levels) in 3011 unrelated white adults.
DXS7-MAOA-MAOB-NDP-dc12-YMAO.AluR ...
Truncating germline and somatic mutations (or, infrequently, allelic loss) occur in tumors in FAP familial adenomatous polyposis.
The substitution was confirmed by restriction endonuclease analysis and was present in heterozygosis.
Two or 3 large deletions, 2 single codon deletions, and 2 single base deletions have been found.
Mice that expressed expanded CUG repeats developed myotonia and myopathy, whereas mice expressing a nonexpanded repeat did not.
The central part of mouse chromosome 7 is homologous to human 15q11-q13, with conservation of both gene order and imprinted features.
We have investigated 5 novel vWS families through probands attended for cleft lip and/or palate repair at the Department of Maxillofacial Surgery of Hopital Trousseau, Paris, in order to tentatively refine the genetic map of the vWS region in 1q32-q41 and possibly identify unlinked pedigrees.
Family studies were performed in order to distinguish the contributions of individual mutant F10 alleles to the clinical and laboratory phenotypes.
Finally, a polymorphism G-->A 759 , which leaves valine at codon 253 unchanged, is described..
METHODOLOGY: PAH gene mutations were examined in 222 hyperphenylalaninemic females enrolled in the Maternal PKU Collaborative Study MPKUCS.
One of five PWS/AS patients analyzed to date has an identifiable, rearranged HERC2 transcript derived from the deletion event.
To begin to address the hypothesis that abnormal regulation of the breast/ovarian cancer susceptibility gene BRCA1 is a critical step in sporadic breast/ovarian tumorigenesis, we have determined the detailed structure of the BRCA1 genomic region.
Individuals with subtotal complement C6 deficiency possess a C6 molecule that is 14% shorter than normal C6 and present in low but detectable concentrations 1-2% of the normal mean.
The pathognomonic accumulation of very long chain fatty acids could also be prevented by overexpression of ALDRP in immortalized X-ALD cells.
Again, a significant male mutation imbalance was observed only for the duplications.
The breakpoints in the present case and in 3 previously reported 5q- patients with adenomatous polyposis coli suggest that the gene responsible for GS/or familial polyposis coli (FPC) is in the 5q22 region, a result consistent with the findings of linkage studies..
The level of histone acetylation is another important factor in regulating gene expression; therefore, we treated lymphoblastoid cell lines of non-mosaic full mutation patients with three drugs capable of inducing histone hyperacetylation.
The entire coding region of the AVP-NPII gene of all family members was amplified by PCR and sequenced.
All but one of the mutations were considered to cause truncation of the gene product by frame-shift due to deletion (14 cases) or nonsense mutation seven cases.
All had abdominal attacks and in most these were the only manifestation of their disease, P < 0.001.
When the mutant alpha-cDNA was the only gene introduced into COS cells no enzymatic activity above endogenous COS cell activity was detected.
Here, we show that retroviral transfer of the wild-type BRCA1 gene inhibits growth in vitro of all breast and ovarian cancer cell lines tested, but not colon or lung cancer cells or fibroblasts.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) and Angelman syndrome (AS) result from the loss of function of imprinted genes in human chromosome 15q11-q13.
The DPC4 gene, which is located at 18q21, has been identified as a tumor-suppressor gene from examination of pancreatic cancers.
Association studies in two independent samples totaling 505 individuals revealed that the 5-HTT polymorphism accounts for 3 to 4 percent of total variation and 7 to 9 percent of inherited variance in anxiety-related personality traits in individuals as well as sibships..
We observed that the YAC transgene supported production of the human protein (FMRP) which was present at levels 10 to 15 times that of endogenous protein and was expressed in a cell- and tissue-specific manner.
Four amino acid substitutions, Leu27Phe, Thr48Ile, Val75Met and Arg477Lys, were found in patients with congenital thrombocytopenia and no clinically evident immune defect indicating that the WASP gene is the site for mutations in X-linked thrombocytopenia as well as in WAS.
Lesch-Nyhan syndrome caused by a complete deficiency of hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) is the result of a heterogeneous group of germ line mutations.
This clone appears to have given rise to the leukemic cells.
The results show that 50% (47 of 94) were G to T mutation at nucleotide (nt) 1376, 21.3% (20 of 94) were G to A mutation at nt 1388, 7.4% (7 of 94) were A to G mutation at nt 493, 7.4% (7 of 94) were A to G mutation at nt 95, 4.2% (4 of 94) were C to T mutation at nt 1024, 1.1% (1 of 94) was G to T mutation at nt 392, and 1.1% (1 of 94) was G to A mutation at nt 487.
Here, we report that the death effector Bax is required for a large proportion of Atm-dependent apoptosis in the developing CNS after ionizing radiation IR.
One patient had a missense mutation in exon 8, converting an arg > his.
By RT-PCR, we found CTSC is also expressed in epithelial regions commonly affected by PLS, including the palms, soles, knees, and oral keratinised gingiva.
A detailed 10-point map of the 4p16 region constructed from the CEPH panel provides evidence for heterogeneity in the linkage maps constructed from families segregating for Huntington disease HD.
To assess this hypothesis, we employed an animal model of A-T, the mouse with a disrupted Atm gene.
More than 75% of the reported mutations in the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene, BRCA1, result in truncated proteins.
The high prevalence of the disorder in the population and the fact that most cases occur sporadically suggest that sequences at or near the breakpoints confer susceptibility to chromosome rearrangements.
Despite the abnormalities in ocular drainage structures in Foxc1 (+/-)mice, IOP was normal in almost all mice analyzed, on all genetic backgrounds and at all ages.
All three affected children were homozygous and the parents heterozygous for a single novel mutation (C301->T) in exon 1, replacing Pro7 of mature AVP with Leu Leu-AVP.
Our previous linkage studies mapped the gene responsible for FEO to an interval of less than 5 cM between D18S64 and D18S51 on chromosome 18q21.2-21.3 in a large Northern Irish family.
These results suggest that mutation of BRCA1 may not be critical in the development of the majority of breast and ovarian cancers that arise in the absence of a mutant germline allele..
Initial evaluation of the ATM knockout animals indicates that inactivation of the mouse ATM gene recreates much of the phenotype of ataxia-telangiectasia.
Several cases of exon skipping in both normal controls and patients for whom no underlying defect could be found in genomic DNA were also observed, suggesting caution in the interpretation of exon deletions observed in ATM cDNA when there is no accompanying identification of genomic mutations..
Physical examination, creatine phosphokinase levels, and muscle biopsy were consistent with Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
The first mutation deletes a large portion of the coding sequence, generating a null allele.
These results suggest that retinoschisin is released by photo-receptors and has functions within the inner retinal layers.
Subsequent molecular biology, biosynthetic, and immunofluorescence studies demonstrated that C2 secretion is impaired in Type II C2 deficiency because of different missense mutations at highly conserved residues in each of the C2Q0 alleles.
Because clear cell papillary cystadenoma is similar to renal cell carcinoma histologically, and because both occur as components of the von Hippel-Lindau disease complex, the authors analyzed both cases for the presence of mutations in the VHL gene.
An SGLT1 missense mutation underlies hereditary glucose/galactose malabsorption, characterized by potentially fatal diarrhea; conversely, oral rehydration therapy exploits normal transport to alleviate life-threatening diarrhea of infectious origin.
Mutations of the human PAX6 gene underlie aniridia (congenital absence of the iris), a rare dominant malformation of the eye.
Although we could not directly correlate the presence of cardiac abnormalities with specific genetic lesions, the mutations identified in patients with cardiomyopathy fell in the GLB1 cDNA region common to the lysosomal enzyme and the Hbeta-Gal-related protein, also known as the elastin binding protein EBP.
Further unraveling of genotype-phenotype correlations in VHL disease has revealed that families with a full or partial deletion of the VHL gene exhibit a phenotype with a preponderance of central nervous system hemangioblastoma..
The consequence of this mutation is an amino acid substitution at a highly conserved position within the CACNA1A gene.
In approximately 5-12% of these cases, there are no demonstrable cardiac or non-cardiac causes to account for the episode, which is therefore classified as idiopathic ventricular fibrillation IVF.
All published mutations affect the signal peptide or the neurophysin-II carrier protein and are presumed to interfere with processing of the preprohormone, leading to neuronal damage.
We evaluated all subjects who had persistently elevated transferrin-saturation values (45 percent or higher) or were homozygous for the C282Y mutation.
Individuals with normal ERGs have mutations predominantly located 5' of the transcript initiation site of Dp260.
FISH with cosmid probes has proved to be a fast and reliable technique for the molecular analysis of deletions.
A second variant in intron 5 was identified IVS5+30G>A.
This report documents a novel splice-site mutation in COL17A1 in a patient with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa, and applies a new methodology to define and characterize the resulting mRNA splice variants.
METHODS: The 29 patients comprised 13 patients with childhood cerebral ALD, 11 patients with adult-onset cerebral ALD, and 5 patients with adrenomyeloneuropathy.
Aarskog-Scott Syndrome (AAS) is an X-linked disorder characterised by short stature and multiple facial, limb and genital abnormalities.
Nephropathy was detected in five of 32 patients with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome who were participating in a study of transfer factor (TF) therapy.
In 16 families with myotonic dystrophy (DM) a novel approach based on use of allele-specific oligonucleotides has been employed to study the linkage relationship between the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene and DM.
Furthermore, all but one of these mutations is located between exons 12 and 24 in the COL2A1 gene.
Although the biochemical function of BRCA1 is not well understood, it is important for DNA damage repair and cell-cycle checkpoint.
BACKGROUND: X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS) is a relatively rare vitreoretinal dystrophy that causes visual loss in young men.
Heterozygotes had subnormal levels of serum albumin.
This report describes a child with clinical features of ALPS without detectable Fas expression on freshly isolated blood leukocytes.
We have detected chromosomally anomalous clones of lymphocytes in eight patients with this disorder.
They share, however, the SD2 antigen W18 and the LD type 7a..
These results support the Pax-6 homologue as a strong candidate for the AN2 gene.
This study provides the means for further investigation of additional genes that cause or modify the phenotypes associated with rearrangements of 15q11-q13..
Further parametric analysis revealed a significant effect of the presence of male-to-male disease transmission within the families.
One was a duplication of 18 bases and the other a duplication of 27 bases, both of which affected the signal peptide region of the RANK molecule.
The small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide N (SNRPN) gene is regarded as one of the candidates for Prader-Willi syndrome PWS.
On the basis of the linkage disequilibrium (LD) delta values, the non-Jewish European N370S chromosomes had greater haplotype diversity and less LD at the markers flanking the conserved haplotype than did the AJ N370S chromosomes.
He was treated for club foot and hip dysplasia at birth.
Haplotype data implied that these deletions occurred on distinct ancestral chromosomes, suggesting that this region may be susceptible to deletion by a common mechanism.
All families showed positive LOD scores without any recombination in the candidate region.
Meiotic drive at the myotonic dystrophy (DM) locus has recently been suggested as being responsible for maintaining the frequency, in the human population, of DM chromosomes capable of expansion to the disease state.
A genetic recombinant in a breast-ovarian cancer family indicates a placement of BRCA1 telomeric to D17S776, and helps to define the region of assignment of the cancer susceptibility gene.
In addition to the epidemiologic data, molecular genetic studies suggest that inactivation of the APC tumor suppressor may be involved in hepatoblastoma tumorigenesis.
Immunohistochemical staining for AGA was performed on 15 oral specimens.
Recently, we and others have isolated a candidate gene for X linked Norrie disease (ND) which was found to be deleted or disrupted in several patients.
This results in infertility and congenital myotonic dystrophy (CDM) with the disappearance of DM in that pedigree.
If this hypothesis is confirmed in other VWS pedigrees, it will represent one of the first examples of a gene, mapped through linkage analysis, which modifies the expression of a major gene.
In contrast to (CUG)n containing mRNAs, the novel isoform is not retained in the nucleus in DM cells, resulting in imbalances in relative levels of cytoplasmic DMPK mRNA isoforms and a new dominant effect of the mutation on DMPK..
The present study confirms the involvement of BRCA1 in disease predisposition for a subset of hereditary breast cancer families often characterized by ovarian cancers..
The mutation underlying myotonic dystrophy (DM) has been identified as an expansion of a polymorphic CTG-repeat in a gene encoding protein kinase activity.
Our data provide a biochemical explanation for the similarity in phenotype between A-T and NBS..
Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency in N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase GALNS.
Recently the FMF gene (MEFV) was cloned; the protein product, pyrin/marenostrin, is thought to regulate inflammation in myeloid cells.
Since a mutation at cDNA nucleotide 2302 (2302insC) had been previously described, this region of the ATP7B gene may be susceptible to gene rearrangements causing Wilson disease..
BACKGROUND: Women with mutations in either the BRCA1 or the BRCA2 gene have a high lifetime risk of ovarian cancer.
As ocular cataracts are a characteristic feature of DM, these results demonstrate that decreased SIX5 transcription is important in the aetiology of DM.
Parents and sibs heterozygous for cathepsin C mutations do not show either the palmoplantar hyperkeratosis or severe early onset periodontitis characteristic of PLS.
The youngest child (2 years old) was only mildly affected but had Leu-AVP levels similar to her severely affected 8-year-old brother, suggesting that unknown mechanisms may partially compensate for a deficiency of active AVP in very young children..
A combination of DNA-binding assays and transcriptional analysis was used to determine the functional consequences of these mutations.
The prevalence of carriers of the Arg95Stop mutation was 6.7% 20/300.
Gc-types in the family were compatible with, but did not prove, linkage of analbuminemia to the Gc-locus.
MAGEL2 is imprinted with monoallelic expression in control brain, and paternal-only expression in the central nervous system as demonstrated by its lack of expression in brain from a PWS-affected individual.
WASP contains several functional domains through which it interacts with proteins involved in intracellular signaling and regulation of the actin cytoskeleton.
Huntington disease (HD) is a severe autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder associated with a novel gene IT15.
However, unlike patients in previous reports, one of our three patients inherited the affected allele from his phenotypically unaffected father.
Germline mutations in the ATM gene are responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia A-T.
This is the first report of Kaposi sarcoma arising in a patient with a congenital immunodeficiency syndrome.
N-terminal fragments of mutant huntingtin form aggregates and induce neuritic degeneration in cultured striatal neurons.
We studied 17 missense mutations using biochemical approaches and 32 missense mutations, using structural analyses.
A total of 11 additional families carrying this mutation were identified in Australia (1), Belgium (1), Canada (1), Great Britain (6), and the United States 2.
Although pregnancy/puerperium and immobility/trauma were important precipitating factors for thrombosis, almost half of the events were spontaneous.
Therefore at present there is no evidence that G6PD deficiency has a protective effect against development of hematologic neoplasms..
To explore the pathogenesis of recurrent neisserial infections in C6 deficiency, a detailed analysis of her immune competence was conducted.
No difference, in penetrance and expression, between the two mutations were found, whereas differences according to method of ascertainment were seen.
We have examined the OCRL1 gene in eight unrelated patients with OCRL and have found seven new mutations and one recurrent in-frame deletion.
Type 1 disease is panethnic but is more prevalent in individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish (AJ) descent.
A highly informative microsatellite marker, DXS426, which maps proximal to DXS7 in the interval Xp11.4-Xp11.23, has been used to refine further the localisation of the gene for Norrie disease NDP.
We report here the result of a screening for germ-line mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene in 61 new familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) patients as well as a summary of the results of 150 patients.
PDS codes for a novel protein, pendrin, which is closely related to a number of sufate transporters.
In contrast, the excision of exons 13/14 that causes a frameshift and creates a C-terminally truncated protein is clearly cell type dependent and occurs predominantly in smooth muscle.
Here we report that, in mutant mice expressing HD repeats, the production and aggregation of N-terminal huntingtin fragments preferentially occur in HD-affected neurons and their processes and axonal terminals.
All patients had the severe childhood form of VLCAD deficiency with early onset and high mortality.
These data provide further evidence for the marked genetic heterogeneity of G6PD deficiency within a relatively narrow geographic area and they prove the presence in the Italian peninsula of a gene (GdA-) regarded as characteristically African..
For stage III cancers, BRCA mutation status was an independent prognostic variable P=.03.
We have overcome this problem by studying a cohort of patients from a single center where the diagnosis was confirmed at the genetic level.
On the basis of this information, we compared the location of germ-line mutations in the APC gene in 22 unrelated patients (12 of whom have been reported previously) with the number of colorectal polyps developed in FAP patients; 17 were sparse types and five were profuse types.
In two patients with the autosomal recessive disease glucose/galactose malabsorption, the underlying cause was found to be a missense mutation in SGLT1, and the Asp28--Asn change was demonstrated in vitro to eliminate SGLT1 transport activity.
The interfamilial heterogeneity in distribution and in severity of the features in the two families point to environmental or genetic modification as the cause of clinical variability in Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy..
A total of 31 homozygous deletions and 36 point alterations were identified.
We ascertained a novel missense mutation in four pedigrees with Peters anomaly, congenital cataract, Axenfeldt anomaly, and/or foveal hypoplasia, which, to our knowledge, is the first mutation identified in the splice-variant region.
The mutation underlying Huntington disease (HD) is CAG expansion in the first exon of the HD gene.
These results are significant not only in terms of their implications for furthering our understanding of galactosemia and GALT holoenzyme structure-function relationships but also because the system described may serve as a model for similar studies of other complexes composed of multiple subunits..
Both methods are performed on DNA isolated from peripheral blood cells and measure the repeat size in FMR1.
Thus additional molecules and/or regulatory events are necessary to explain the exclusive degeneration of certain brain areas..
We conclude that ATM heterozygotes have an approximately ninefold-increased risk of developing a type of breast cancer characterized by frequent bilateral occurrence, early age at onset, and long-term survival.
Together, these results demonstrate a biochemical link between cell-cycle checkpoints activated by DNA damage and DNA repair in two genetic diseases with overlapping phenotypes..
Two novel nonsense mutations led to the loss of mutant BRCA1 transcript in families with 10 and 6 cases of early-onset breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
In case 3, loss of heterozygosity was also demonstrated by informative TTC 3/(TTC)2 polymorphism.
Its clinical features are variably expressed, but include cleft lip and/or cleft palate, lip pits and hypodontia.
The IQ of PAH-deficient mothers with a severe PKU mutation in combination with a MHP mutation or a mild PKU mutation was 99 and 96, respectively, whereas the IQ of PKU mothers with two severe PKU mutations or with one severe and one moderate PKU mutation was 83 and 84, respectively.
Using a HeLa cell line in which the expression of HFE is controlled by tetracycline, we show that the expression of HFE reduces 55Fe uptake from Tf by 33% but does not affect the endocytic or exocytic rates of TfR cycling.
This result supports a role for RNA gain of function in disease pathogenesis..
In this study, we analyzed mutations of the responsible gene, ATP7B, in four Japanese patients with WD.
We subsequently noted a substantial variation in glycerolemia in subjects of the initial cohort with normal plasma glycerol levels and demonstrated that this variance showed significant family resemblance.
A 24 year old male with a history of eczema, recurrent mild infections, and thrombocytopenia consistent with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) presented with a mediastinal mass, generalized lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and severe thrombocytopenia.
